[Music]
most of us have only ever caught a
bird's eye view of the snow covered
South End of Greenland from the airplane
window on a transatlantic flight or seen
pictures of its breathtaking
glaciers but US president Donald Trump
has put the Arctic Island back on the
map and I also have a message tonight
for the incredible people of
Greenland we strongly support your right
to determine your own future
and if you choose we welcome you into
the United States of America we need
Greenland for he wants it and he's not
ruled out getting it by force but we
need it really for international World
security and I think we're going to get
it one way the other way going to get
it we will keep you safe we will make
you rich and together we will take
Greenland to Heights like you have never
thought possible before
[Music]
[Applause]
in this special episode of the Reuters
World News podcast we'll visit Greenland
the autonomous territory which is a part
of Denmark look at its strategic
potential in Arctic defense and of
course its vast Treasure Trove of
Natural Resources plus what Greenland's
upcoming election could mean for its
future and its independence movement I'm
your host Gail Isa
[Music]
I'm joined by our chief Denmark
correspondent Jacob grol Peterson in
Copenhagen and our White House reporter
Trevor Honeycut in Washington DC Jacob
Trevor thank you so much for joining us
today it's a pleasure thank you Trevor
have you ever been to Greenland I have
not it's on my
list Jacob I think that makes you the
only person I know who's ever been to
Greenland you're just back from a twoe
trip to its capital nuke can you paint a
picture for our listeners what is
Greenland like absolutely yeah so this
was my third visit to Greenland was
actually my my first uh during the
during winter time which was um well
cold think it was likeus 15 20Â° uh when
we got there it's a very dramatic uh
dramatic Coastline with um lots of
dramatic Cliffs and and and Landscapes
and very deep FS
um lots of claes that you fly over going
into nuke so you have the these FS
filled with icebergs and lots of drift
dies during the winter so it's really
it's really quite spectacular and it
just keeps getting better and better
especially because of the people I mean
they're so friendly so warm they love to
have a laugh the main language is the in
language um but then you know it's been
uh Danish territory for over 300 years
and almost everyone speaks and
understands Danish so for me as a native
D Dan it's um a strange and interesting
place to visit you come to this very
different country very different culture
but then everyone speaks your language
and you know you pay in Danish currency
and you know in the supermarket you buy
the same products as as you do in in
Denmark 95% of greenlands exports uh
from the fisheries and then there's the
tourism industry which is still small
but it's growing very rapidly which is
very much seen in in all the main towns
but new hotels new airports being built
Trevor we heard president Donald Trump
give Greenland a headline in his recent
Marathon speech to Congress this isn't
the first time he's talked about
snapping up Greenland famously making an
offer to buy it during his first term
can you give us a sense of the
administration's thinking here is he
serious well he he is I mean I think
AIDS who've been around Trump for a
while know that when he has an obsession
it tends to be something that reappears
over and over again you know now at the
same time it's also worth noting that
Trump has a tendency to float kind of
Fantastical ideas and then you know not
always necessarily follow through with
implementing them and this certainly
fits in that that bucket as well but as
far as strategically where the Trump
Administration is at there is one this
kind of undercurrent of I'm going to
call it a a kind of neo-imperialist
streak in some of the policies that they
pursue and kind of all of these ideas
come from this place of an idea that the
United States needs to be in Exploration
mode needs to be expanding needs to be
Shoring up its defenses Visa V China
needs to be acquiring the minerals that
are needed for Advanced Technologies and
needs to be energy independent as well
and Greenland checks a lot of those
boxes let's get into Arctic defense then
Trevor can you kick us off with why
Greenland's location just is so
significant in terms of uh US military
might sure so the United States wants to
be an Arctic power and the degree to
which global warming has has changed the
world has made the Arctica space that is
going to be way more important in the
future than it has been in the past and
the US is already present in the Arctic
but they want dominance when it comes to
both energy possibilities but also in a
related sense the military advantages of
being strategic and dominant there that
is not something they want China to ever
gain that's not something they want
China to be able to partner with Russia
another Arctic power in order to have a
foothold there and Jacob just does the
US really need to snap up Greenland in
order to get the kind of military
leverage that it wants there the the
short answer is no the United States has
letting back to the
1950s they entered a a defense treaty
with Denmark that essentially gave the
United States um unlimited powers to do
to do what it wants uh militarily in
Greenland since then they've closed down
all but but one uh military base up up
in the north but really if they wanted
to open more military bases if they
wanted to install Radars on the on
Greenland's East Coast to see what's
going down through the the ti UK gap
between between UK and Greenland they
could do this basically just by telling
the Danish and greenlandic governments
now we've recently seen Trump
gravitating more towards Russian
President Vladimir Putin's orbit how
does Greenland figure in countering
Russian influence and of course on the
global political stage as well I think
that you know at this point Greenland is
not figured in in a major way into uh
the Trump administration's Russia policy
which is surprising right I I think the
main goal here is to try to make sure
that there aren't new powers that get a
foothold um in the region and I think a
lot of the focus is actually on the
possibility that China could work with
Russia or that China could in a private
sector capacity come into Greenland and
and gain some Advantage right and we've
seen in the past that the the main us
concern in Greenland has really been
Chinese activities there so so we've
reported in the past years about how
Washington has has tried and
successfully kept the Chinese out of
Greenland in mining in uh financing new
airports that have been built in
research institutions of course the
buzzwords that we're all hearing
non-stop now are critical minerals rare
Earths Greenland is sitting on top of a
significant number of Natural Resources
uh Trevor what is the US eyeing in
Greenland and how does that play into
its Economic Security strategy so this
is a huge Focus for um for Trump and for
his uh National Security adviser Mike
Waltz is this concern about the
availability of especially Rare Earth uh
minerals that are are needed for the
semiconductor and other technology
Industries and the administration is
very concerned by China's increased
weaponization of its dominance in The
Rare Earth space including its use and
threat of export controls on some of
these very rare rare Earths and so that
has kind of dictated a policy where they
are scouring far and wide in the world
for new sources of stability and
insurance when it comes to some of these
minerals and so green has definitely fit
into that strategy too is this is one of
the places along with anywhere from
Ukraine to space where the United States
is going to be looking to pull some of
these these uh rocks out of the ground
and Jacob what exactly does Greenland
have to offer here yeah I mean they they
pretty much have it all to be honest and
the the unique thing about Greenland is
that it's uh its availability many of
these critical minerals and rars
graphite copper nickel sink gold iron
titanium
uranium and many many more they're
easily available sitting right there
ready to mine the problem is of course
the lack of infrastructure in Greenland
there are no roads between towns in
Greenland the climate is a big hindrance
in the northern part of Greenland it's
completely dark for at least four or
five months of the year and and
extremely cold so you have a you only
have a window of a few months to to do
any real exploration but they've been
trying to get their mining industry
going for a long time with little
success or what you really need is some
of the big companies and large serious
investor types to come in and say okay
this is something we we believe in So
currently there's there's a big
investment Gap to get some of the the
real big mining sites up and running now
especially in in the South there's two
very large Rare Earth deposits some of
the biggest in the world that's two of
the projects that could be relevant for
for the United
States okay Jacob now let's uh zoom in
and hear from some of the greenlandic
people you met in Nuke what have they
had to say about this uh revived us
interest in their Island Kim kly Ericson
is uh is an artist who carvs uh these
beautiful and very detailed sculpture of
Wars Tusk and wars
[Music]
craniums and he is um he's very well
known in in in Greenland and he's I
think he's the only artist of of this
kind this is a very old art form that
he's taken up and trying to revive uh
trying to bring it bring it back these
are the last walrose tus that my
grandfather caught he sees himself as a
storyteller he said there's very few
sort of history books about the Inuit
you know what happened before
colonization and before kenland was
really modernized Kim kly Ericson is a
symbol of this growing sense of pride in
Inuit identity that is happening in in
Greenland right now and which has been
very much galvanized by the comments
made made by Trump I mean at first I
thought it it was a joke but I could
sense that he was was serious about it
but what kind of man tries to buy the
country in
2025 who does that so
um even though I don't hate United
States I was kind of in disgust that he
wanted to do that but in Reverse I'd
love to work with the United States and
not be part of United States but be
proud Inuits of Greenland and our own
government here and not only United
States we're we would be open to the
rest of the world instead of just Den
Martin from here Greenland's population
of roughly 57,000 people are gearing up
for an election on Tuesday top of Voters
minds are aspirations for independence
from
Denmark Jacob you spoke to a greenlandic
influencer kuk Olson who's also running
in next week's election you spoke to her
on a very windy day in nuk's colonial
era Harbor what did she have to to say
about this uh tight rope that nuke is
walking between Copenhagen and
Washington DC so kop nuk Olson used to
work as a as a mining engineer in
Greenland's government she's Greenland's
biggest social media influencer and she
told us that she decided to run for
Parliament for the main Pro Independence
party I hope that my children will will
be proud greenlanders in an independent
country
and yeah and live a free life without
any
colonization and her decision was fueled
basically by Donald Trump's remarks
about him wanting to own Greenland she
was not too keen on Trump wanting to
take over Greenland we will never ever
become a state under the United States
uh but all the interest uh from the US
and the rest of the world is empowering
green Landers so it's helping towards
our
independence but what he said about how
greenlanders felt they've been
treated poorly by Denmark for many years
and that certainly was something she and
many others were happy that he brought
up I think she certainly got to attract
some votes in among people who want to
distance or completely cut ties with
Denmark and it it feels like the
greenlandic people in a sense are caught
right now between a rock and a hard
place they're alarmed by the us but
they're not really thrilled with the
Frau relationship that they have with
Denmark you attended a documentary
Premiere as well which you said
underscored a shifting attitude towards
Copenhagen Can you tell us about that
while we were there a documentary called
Greenland's white gold premiered in the
nuk
cinema and it was a really big event
the whole government was there and the
political business cultural Elite was
there and the documentary basically told
the story of how Danish companies
including state-owned ones had mined a
very large cry light deposit in the
south of Greenland over many many
decades and how they had brought all
this back to Denmark and with this
benefiting the people of Greenland uh at
all and it made a real big impact I saw
people really upset and some people were
crying and they said the whole narrative
that Denmark has been telling us all
these years about how they're good
colonizer and we should be happy that
Denmark is supporting us economically
that's basically a lie this documentary
all of a sudden made Denmark the main
villain in the election campaign and
even further galvanized the independence
movement Denmark's finance ministry has
said it will look at the profit
allegations made in the film as part of
an ongoing historical investigation into
relations with Greenland the ministry
said it had not reviewed the numbers
presented in the
film given these developments Trevor any
sense of how closely the US
Administration is keeping tabs on
Greenland's election no I mean they are
watching they are very interested in
kind of where the sentiment of the
people is on this issue and they want to
see you know what are the possibilities
for the US to kind of set up a plan
going forward on how they can execute on
Trump's vision and Jacob can you give us
a taste of what to expect when the polls
open What's really at stake in this
election one party the narak party that
wants a swiftly cut TI with Denmark they
are certainly making most noise at the
moment there are no um opinion polls so
we don't know where where it stands but
I think it's unlike that they will be
able to to hold power on their own after
an election they will have to share
power in a coalition with with some of
the um traditional bigger bigger parties
but the approach of narak is that they
want to ENT negotiations with Denmark
quickly and once they have a deal with
Denmark what they hope for is that
Denmark will continue to support
Greenland for a number of years um
before they achieve full Independence
but I think people really love to talk
about independence and they love to talk
about the sense of of Injustice they
feel but when you when you speak to
people just a little bit longer then
they say well you know we need to take
it step by step we need to get the
economy in order we need to get some of
the mining projects up and running we
need to get the tourism sector up and
running so I have a sense that it's not
going to
happen that quickly I think in Greenland
many people certainly see now there's a
window a historic window to gain
independence but I think it also creates
a a window for the US to increase its
influence in Greenland Denmark is
spending a little less than a billion
dollar a year on Greenland and there's a
beginning debate here in Denmark where
I'm based they would
say why should we keep paying all this
money to Greenland on the political side
it's a bit more nuanced I'd say I think
politicians have ever since uh Trump
renewed his interest in Greenland
they've they've realized that you know
this is serious we could actually lose
Greenland but again it has to any sort
of new Arrangement a free association
PCT any sort of future links between
Denmark and an independent Greenland
would have to make economic sense for
Denmark and Denmark does not have the
economic muscle to to do what Trump
really wants Denmark to do in Greenland
and in the North Atlantic one thing I
should add here is that Denmark here in
Washington has been completely
blindsided by how quickly a lot of this
has developed
and so it's all hands on deck uh in
terms of the Danish government to figure
out how to solve this problem and keep
its alliance with the United States
strong at the same time yeah this
certainly created a big crisis when
Trump fled the idea of buying Greenland
back in 2019 it was perceived in Denmark
and in Greenland mostly as a sort of a a
loose idea and uh it was quickly
rebuffed by by prime minister M
Fredricksen as
and that Greenland is today a part of
the Kingdom of Denmark it's part of our
territory um and it's not for sale which
caused sort of public spat between the
Prime Minister and Trump this time
around the response from Denmark has
been that it's up to Greenland to decide
they realize Trump is serious this time
he really wants Greenland
[Music]
thanks again to Trevor and Jacob for
their time and expertise thank you also
to producer Tom little who worked with
Jacob to collect the audio and footage
from their trip to Greenland Reuters
world news is produced by Kim vanel
Sharon R Garson Jonah green David
Spencer Christopher wal Jasper and me
Gail Isa our senior producers are Tara
Oaks and Carmel KMS our executive
producer is Leela dezer musical
composition and sound design for this
episode are by Christopher wal Jesper
and and Josh
summer we'll be back on Monday with our
daily headline show to make sure you
never miss an episode follow along on
your favorite podcast player or download
the Reuters app
[Music]
