today trade Wars erupt as president
Trump's tariffs kick in with China
Mexico and Canada the US has halted
military aid for Ukraine while also
considering easing sanctions on Russia
and what we know about a proposal for
rebuilding Gaza from Egypt and other
Arab
Nations it's Tuesday March 4th this is
Roy's world news bringing you everything
you need to know from the front lines in
10 minutes every weekday I'm Tara Oaks
in London and I'm Christopher walljasper
in
Chicago president Donald Trump's new 25%
tariffs on imports from Mexico and
Canada have taken effect as well as a
doubling of Duties on Chinese Goods to
20% it launches new trade conflicts with
the countries who are the US's top
Trading partn
and China's already responded announcing
additional tariffs of 10 to 15% on
certain us Imports leis jackon is in
Beijing so the response to date has
targeted agricultural Goods you know
soybeans beef Dairy corn to the tune of
about $21 billion and really this is an
escalation of the tariffs that we saw
China impose in February at that point
they were retaliating to Trump's first
round of tariffs because you know
agriculture is a huge a huge huge part
of the us China relationship China is
the world's largest agricultural market
and it's the biggest sort of customer of
us agricultural products so by choosing
to hit these items it's definitely an
escalation so how is China impacted by
the US tariffs it's a blow to exports at
a time when you know the Chinese economy
is not doing so well and and exports are
sort of a rare bright spot so we've
already seen exporters in China
anticipating these tariffs and trying to
get sort of product out the door before
they come in um I think the real the
real big question here is are we on a
road to 60% you know that number that
that Trump flagged at 60% you know we'd
start to expect companies to to move
production out of China at least if they
want to serve this US market so it's not
great but it could get a lot worse China
must have been anticipating this and
getting ready for the tariffs right so
what's happened over really since the
first trade war in F in Trump's first
term is that China has made itself less
reliant on us agricultural Imports
they're buying more from other countries
especially in Latin America and and at
home they're boosting production grain
soybean livestock here using new
technology they're experimenting with
new crop varieties and and that's all
about you know weeing themselves off us
agricultural Imports right now China's
in a position where it can hit us
agricultural exports Without Really
necessarily hurting its own food
[Music]
security the Tariff kicking in has sent
investors ducking for cover across
markets volatility gauges for treasuries
and for us and Japanese stocks hit their
highest levels of the Year this week and
implied volatility in currencies ticked
higher the fall in the dollar has been
one of the most eye-catching reversals
as conviction turns to confusion in
currency trade at the White House Trump
took aim at China and Japan for holding
their currencies too cheap in fact the
Yuan against a basket of trading
partners currencies is historically firm
and Japan has been intervening in recent
years to buy the Yen and you can follow
along with all the latest reaction to
the tariffs on reuters.com and the
Reuters
app the Trump Administration has halted
Aid to Ukraine as the aftermath of the
meeting with Ukrainian president
volodimir zalinski last week continues
to escalate president Trump on Monday
criticizing zelinsky's remarks on where
negotiations stand excitement but he
said he thinks the war's going to go on
for a long time uh and he better not be
right about that that's all I'm saying
one Ukrainian lawmakers told Reuters the
decision pushes Kev towards capitulation
on Russia's terms our White House
reporter is Andrea shalel it raises a
lot of questions that haven't been
answered including whether the Munitions
for the already delivered weapon systems
can be supplied perhaps by Europe and
whether the US will still share
intelligence with Ukraine on target
identification and missile launches that
has been an important part of Ukraine's
war fighting effort and losing that
would be really devastating beyond the
military the US assistance to Ukraine
also includes budgetary assistance
largely delivered through a world Bank
Trust Fund and the Europeans have
rallied around seninsky but it's not
likely that they'll be able to make up
for the pause in US
supplies the changing relationship
between Ukraine and the US is set to be
a key Focus for Donald Trump's speech to
Congress tonight he's expected to say
he's committed to ending the war and
there could be a path back to a minerals
deal with Ukraine as a dynamic around
the war changes the Trump Administration
is considering easing sanctions on
Russia now this aligns with Trump's
efforts to restore ties to the Kremlin
in recent weeks including the beginning
of talks with Putin to negotiate an end
to the war in Ukraine our reporter
Daphne saladis covers sanctions for us
out of DC the Biden Administration
imposed rafts of sanctions targeting
Moscow over the invasion of Ukraine in
2022 they targeted everything from
Russian President Vladimir Putin himself
and other officials Russian oligarchs
Banks and the energy sector Western
governments led by Washington also
imposed a $60 per barrel price cap on
Russia's oil exports and Biden hit
Moscow with designations on Russian
energy companies and vessels that
shipped its oil they went after people
and entities in third countries that
were helping Russia evade sanctions they
imposed some really expansive sanctions
targeting Moscow over the invasion of
Ukraine what do we know about how this
could impact Russia's economy so Russia
has been able to build a wartime economy
with it increased military spending uh
since 2022 when it invaded Ukraine but
experts have said that the country's
economy is vulnerable and in need of
Western sanctions relief the Kremlin
said last week that Russia had lots of
rare earth metal deposits and was open
to doing deals to develop them and Putin
has held out the possibility of such
collaboration with the us but we don't
know what this will look like for
Russia's economy until we know what
sanctions relief looks
[Music]
like interior Minister n faser offering
condolences for the victims of Germany's
latest car ramming attack a German man
drove into a crowd in Manheim on Monday
killing at least two and injuring 11
others the suspect has been arrested
officials say he does not appear to have
been motivated politically or
religiously but there were reasons to
believe he was psychologically
unwell Pope Francis has suffered two
episodes of acute respiratory
insufficiency according to the Vatican
the 88-year-old pope has been battling
double pneumonia after being admitted to
the hospital on February
[Music]
14th a group of Arab states are
proposing a plan for the future of Gaza
and notably it doesn't include
Hamas Reuters has seen a draft of the
plan which will be presented at the Arab
League Summit in Cairo Andrew Mills is
in Doha and has the details Egypt and
Jordan some of the Gulf States have for
the last month been having a number of
meetings and discussions and throwing
around ideas for what would be an
alternative to president Trump's
so-called Gaza Riviera plan which would
see the potential displacement of
Palestinians from Gaza so this plan
calls for a number of things but one of
the main things is essentially the
sidelining of Hamas in Gaza so Hamas has
you know played a political and security
role in Gaza for a long time since well
before this war but what really stands
out about the plan is the questions that
it doesn't answer who's going to pay for
the Reconstruction of Gaza how will
Hamas be forced aside in Gaza and are
other Arab countries going to support
Cairo in its plan has there been any
signal that Washington would be open to
this sort of idea the White House did
indicate that they wel
ideas from the Arab world they
especially welcome ideas that reject the
participation of Hamas in Gaza going
forward but what really comes next is to
try to build some kind of unity in the
Arab world I think we're not at the
stage to be able to even answer that
[Music]
yet and for today's recommended read of
Reuters exclusive a review of travel and
employment documents has shown that
several senior Russian missile experts
have flown to Iran in the last year the
travel comes amid a deepened defense
cooperation between Moscow and Teran
there's a link to a story in the Pod
description for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app don't forget to
follow us on your favorite podcast
player we'll be back back tomorrow with
our daily headline show
