[Music]
over thater
please roll out the red carpet it's
almost time for the 97th Academy
Awards this year's ceremony comes in the
wake of wildfires that have ravaged La
the heart of the movie
industry on this weekend episode of
Reuters world news our journalists take
you through how Tinsel Town is
responding to a shifting political
climate
as well as who could be the big Winners
or
losers and we'll get a behind the-scenes
Peak at what it's really like to cover
Hollywood's biggest
night I'm your host Sharon R Garson in
New
[Music]
York joining us Lisa Richwine our
entertainment reporter Don sheski our
entertainment business reporter and
Senior photographer Mike Blake hey guys
thanks for talking today thanks for
having us yeah hey thanks for having us
thanks for having us there's so much to
talk about let's start with best picture
conclave just snagged the SAG Award for
best Ensemble Lisa could that be a
signal that it'll win best picture this
year it definitely could be a signal sag
is the Screen Actors Guild and the
actors make the biggest group of Voters
for the Academy Awards so when you you
look at what they're picking for sag
it's a good sign of what that group
might be voting for for the Oscars it's
not always predictive but it's a good
sign this year there have been a lot of
surprises there's been no clear front
runner conclave seems to Ed have the
edge right now but Anora also did really
well at uh the awards from The Producers
Guild which also is pretty good at
picking the Best Picture Winner W some
awards from directors so I think it's
between conclave and Anora right now but
it's been such a weird year that I
really feel like anything could happen
now Dawn I'm wondering about the timing
we all know the pope is seriously ill
and that's on a lot of people's minds
could that have impacted voting yeah it
does seem like a chillingly coincidental
timing that that a movie about the
selection of the next Pope is happening
even as the pope is ill although for the
best picture the voting closed on
February 18th so that that those votes
have already been cast long before the
real life drama has played out and I I
will say I agree with relases
observations that this has been an
incredibly close race there hasn't been
a clear front runner all year but the
SAG award has predicted the Best Picture
Winner for the last three years you'll
recall it it selected Oppenheimer and
everything everywhere all at once and
also Kota so for the last three years at
least it's been accurate in predicting
best picture okay now Mike as a
photographer how do you approach
covering a red carpet at at such a big
event this year I'm grow me when I grow
up I'm just trying to figure out who's
who because they come at you from all
directions honestly usually I get to see
most of the pictures before and I've
only seen one picture this year because
I've been so he was so busy with the fir
I've only seen conclave so I know
everyone who's in that movie that will
help me out a lot so if conclave wins it
seems like it would be a really
significant upset is that right I mean
many of the film seem like pretty strong
contenders and they've had big campaigns
around them too I would say what's
interesting is the most popular movie of
the year Wicked seems to be out of
contention for best picture and Lisa and
I have have spoken about this quite a
bit it has been more than two decades
since a musical actually won best
picture the last time that happened was
in 2003 when Chicago won best picture I
I I would point out again this has been
an unusual year there was another front
runner at one point it was Emelia Perez
from Netflix which has the most
nominations of any film going into the
Oscars and was seen as the leader until
there was a controversy with the lead
actress there were some tweets of hers
from several years ago that were
offensive to many marginalized groups
and that really tanked a lot of the
affection for that movie in in the
voting unfortunately people may still
admire that movie but they may not feel
they want to honor it with an Oscar yeah
I agree with with Lisa there there
Netflix built its entire campaign around
Carla Sophia gason the First trans
performer to be nominated as best
actress and she gave a really strong
performance in the film but shortly
thereafter social media began surfacing
some comments that she made about George
Floyd and the aftermath of his murder
and also about Muslims in Spain and
other comments that she made that were
largely indefensible and it really
appears to have tanked not only her
chances but those for the film now you
mentioned Carla Sophia gone being
nominated for best actress and that's a
really interesting race right Dei Moore
is nominated for the substance and it's
a horror film which traditionally just
isn't Oscar fair but she won the SAG and
the Golden Globe and then there's Mikey
Madison she's young but she's nominated
for Anora so tell me how are things
shaping up in the race for best actress
I think Demi is the front runner she won
the SAG award she gave a really moving
speech at the Golden Globes about how
she felt she had been dismissed as a
popcorn actress who wasn't taken
seriously who didn't deserve Awards
recognition and people have really
rallied around her she's 62 now she
started acting in her teens and I think
people really responded to that story
and you know and the and the performance
that she put in which also talks about
you know how Society views aging women
you've also got a Brazilian actress
Fernanda Torres who is in for um I'm
still here which is a movie in
Portuguese her mother was nominated for
best actress back in the 90s did not win
so if Fernanda could win she would be
the first Brazilian actress to win best
actress Mikey Madison yeah gave a a
really strong performance in Anora I
mean she's 25 years old a lot of times
the academy doesn't want to award people
who are younger but she gave a really
anive performance that that people were
wowed by I mean she's pretty unknown so
that is a really interesting race and I
you know I think nobody would argue with
with any of those and Cynthia Revo for
Wicked is in there as well the star of
as we said the popular musical from last
year so that field but de's been been
cleaning up so I I think that people
look at her as the expected winner okay
another tight race that we could see a
surprise in right best actor yeah it's
kind of been viewed as Adrien Ro's award
to lose Lisa is that right yes but the
SAG Awards changed that Timothy shalam
won for playing Bob Dylan at the SAG
Awards he is 29 and also there's been
some chatter that oh he's too young you
know does should we really give him an
Oscar now but the the SAG voters did he
spent five and a half years working on
that role and he talked about how he at
the sags how he really wants to be
considered one of the great actors of
all time and poured himself into that
and he could be he could be the surprise
winner well it's hard to know too
whether Adrien Brody's performance has
been overshadowed by This Whispering
campaign about the use of AI in that
film to perfect the delivery of
Hungarian in the movie Adrien Brody
certainly gives a really wrenching
performance as a sort of tortured
immigrant and in the ordeals he
experiences you know anti-Semitism and
some pretty horrific abuse in in America
but I I it's hard to know whether sort
of raw authentic performance was somehow
undercut by the use of AI in the film
absolutely Lisa you talked about Timothy
sham and he really has been everywhere I
saw him you know showing up at like a
lookalike contest you know he's really
sort of making the rounds so is this
endearing quality that we're seeing does
this seem genuine or does this seem like
a campaign I mean it's a it's a fine
line to walk right like you know and I
guess it's in the of the the beholder or
in this case you know the eye of the
voter do they find it Charming or is is
it too much you're trying too hard he
hosted Saturday Night Live he was on
ESPN one day doing football picks he has
been everywhere and really Charmed
people so you know it's going to be up
to the the thousands of Voters in the
academy to decide whether whether he's
gone too far I mean in addition to those
very public things that everybody sees
you know he goes to a bunch of film
festivals that are also the precursors
to the Oscars where he interacts more
directly with the people who are the
voters and you know the voters are
producers and cinematographers and
actors and directors I mean people all
throughout the industry and those are
the ones that he really needs to charm I
mean he you know he his campaign is also
to you know get people in the public to
go see the movie but as far as WN the
Oscar voters yeah you know it's it's for
the voters to decide but you know I I
know that there are some years when
people think oh yeah that person just
it's a little much um so yeah it's a
fine line to walk I'm going to jump in
here really quick with little anecdote
about Timothy yeah yeah Mike of course
first time I ever met him was on the red
carpet of the Oscars and I didn't know
who he was he came up to me for me to
take his picture and I'm like sure I'll
take your picture and usually with The
Men We tend just to do head shot or
waist up stuff they're not really
fashionable I can't even remember when
he was wearing something funky though
and he posed and then I took his picture
I put the camera down and he goes no no
no you have to take everything from the
shoes to every the whole whole frame
picture and I'm like okay sure so I pull
up another camera with a different lens
on it and I take his picture and he's
like okay gives me the Thum up and he
walks away and I'm like I don't who is
this guy you know like but that was him
he was he was that guy is on he's on it
right he knows he's going somewhere and
he knows where he wants to go there's no
question and that was maybe five eight
years ago how important are these
campaigns still for Studios they're
they're hugely important it's almost
like a political campaign you got to
spend millions of dollars on the
campaign Trail to get your talent out
there talking about the film and giving
their stories as I said to me Mo's story
is really helping her um in her campaign
aside from the performance and it
definitely helps just like in politics
it's you know it's who you respond to a
lot of times it's not just you know the
the performance on the screen also you
know from a business perspective these
Academy Awards can make a huge
difference for nominated films
particularly for independent film you
remember a few years back uh the shape
of water was a bit of an oddball of a
movie sort of sea monsters in a romantic
film aren't aren't a natural go-to for
movies it's a it was a bit of
challenging fair that movie Drew more
than half of its box office post
nomination so an Oscar nomination really
can make the difference for a film that
is distributed theatrically and for a
streamer like Netflix an Oscar
nomination can also confer Prestige that
can translate to its ability to attract
top tier directors and performers you
know who might do it for the opportunity
to do a big ambitious project that maybe
another Studio couldn't afford to do and
Netflix would like The Prestige of
ultimately being able to win a Best
Picture award you know Don you used the
word Whispering campaign earlier so has
the muds slinging during this year's
campaign been worse than usual you know
there there there have been whispering
campaigns in years past and this year
wasn't so much a whispering campaign as
it was social media doing what it does
best internet sleuths are terrific at
using the the the internet to go find
out more about the people who are in the
news and in this case Carl sopia gasone
revealed a lot about herself that
perhaps even Netflix didn't know when it
acquired this
[Music]
movie we've seen the conversation around
diversity and better representation and
being front and center right now in the
US do do you expect that to play any
role in this year's show I think some of
the winners um may very well address it
I mean Hollywood is known for wanting to
speak up about politics and some people
roll their eyes at that and they don't
want to hear it but you know a lot of
the Stars feel like they have a platform
and and they want to speak up so it
depends on on who the winners are but I
I would think it's going to come up at
some point the host Conan O'Brien you
know he might throw in some jokes about
it um as a way of bringing it up it's
his first time hosting and the Trump
Administration has frequently been a
target of jokes by Oscar host in the
past look the Trump
Administration and the new chairman of
the FCC Brendan Carr has targeted
broadcasters for perceived bias and it
is now conducting an investigation of
Comcast and its diversity and inclus
inclusion practices it is investigating
CBS for its interview of kamla Harris
and it is entirely possible that the
network broadcast of this will be held
to a higher level of scrutiny
broadcasters May well be feeling pressur
now Mike you were heavily involved in
leading our cover to the wildfires uh in
La I know all three of you were were
part of that Lisa maybe could you talk a
little bit about what you've seen as far
as the impact of the wildfires on the
awards and also on on the industry as a
whole so the film industry in Los
Angeles was shrinking before the fires
production was moving to other states
other countries that had tax incentives
to make the production cheaper there is
a real worry that a lot of the crew who
live here are going to say well why
should I rebuild here if there's not
going to be any work here they might
leave a bunch of the skilled crew might
leave Los Angeles now there Advocates
who are trying to capitalize on this
because there is so much Goodwill toward
Los Angeles right now and the recovery
and they have started a stay in La
campaign they say the best way to help
La recover from the fires is to do more
production here get people back to work
you might see it come up at the Oscars
on Sunday because you know the the
bigname actors live here and a lot of
the crew members live here and they want
they want to be home and work here the
movie industry is a tough industry
because you talk to people no one's got
a staff job anywhere everyone wants a
freelancer pretty much so they don't
have a steady stream of income it's been
tough on this city I'll tell you that
it's really hard for these people they
went through Co they went through the
strike and now they have the fire yeah
hopefully they do something really sweet
at this award show because they they
someone should shouted out and one thing
I I would add on that is I mean there
there were some calls that oh Hollywood
should cancel all the award shows and
donate the money to Fire Relief but then
other people said no you know what those
shows employ a lot of people uh United
talent agency has decided to scrap its
pre-oscar party and use the money that
it would have spent to benefit Fire
Relief every year there's an
organization called everyone wins gives
out these opulent gift baskets to every
nominee among the items included in this
year's gift basket is $1 million worth
of personalized Disaster Recovery
Services from ay called bright Harbor so
that's appears to be a nod to the
realities here in
Hollywood and a ceremony a celebration
like this obviously has a lot of
logistics involved so Mike I want to ask
you a little bit about that how many
photographers do we have actually
covering this event for reuter's
photographically wise we have uh one
person shooting the show that's usually
from the projection room it's like a
very long lens 600 mm I've shot the show
many times it's super stressful uh
appily this year I'm just roaming a red
carpet which is a little bit easier then
we have a photographer in the back photo
room and then on the red carpet the
arrivals are usually this we call it
step and repeat it's a fashion picture
everyone cares about what who wore what
to wear basically and for me it's more
about who's chatting with who on the red
carpet who do they run into and a lot of
it's really interesting because you'll
see people that haven't seen each other
for years and they're working in
different countries all the time and
they may have worked on a movie three
years ago that movie may be up for an
award this year depending on the
timeline in production and they probably
haven't seen each other since they made
the movie so there's a lot of
camaraderie and there's a you get a real
sense of community roaming the red
carpet and seeing all these people just
happy to see each other now Mike you've
been covering this longer than any of us
so from a coverage standpoint how have
things changed over the years it's
changed with technology as technology
has moved ahead I mean my the first
osters I did was I think in the 90s I
didn't even shoot it I was working in
the dark roomm developing color film
making Color Prints now when a
photographer takes a picture the editor
sees it instantly chooses the best frame
props it the metadata is added to it and
then it goes out to the wire and all of
that literally is 30 seconds or a minute
in it at the most so things have changed
so Mike when you're roaming that carpet
what are you looking for yeah I'm just
trying to figure out who's who because
they come at you from all directions
honestly talk to me about prep what do
you do to get ready for a big show like
this looking at who's nominated and what
they look like that's basically my prep
because there's little things you
remember about the actors and they stay
in your mind but the newer actors if I
haven't seen the movie I basically have
to look up and remember what they look
like do you guys think about what you're
going to be wearing or your hair or any
of that stuff that we all associate with
the Oscars as journalist we actually
receive a directive from the academy
dictating our attire we're actually
required to wear gowns and or tuxes and
if we are anywhere near the red carpet
we're actually told to wear either black
or dark blue so there's not a whole lot
of creative license if you will yeah and
I always think it's it's a kind of a
ridiculous scene backstage which is
actually a hotel next door to the Dolby
Theater we're not even in the same
building there's like 200 journalists in
this room we all are hunched over
laptops there's wires going everywhere
yet we're in these like glamorous ball
gowns um so it is not really glamorous
it's it's it's kind of absurd and I wish
I had a picture but they also don't
allow any pictures in that room the
Great greatest irony is there's a whole
Deli counter vibe to it each journalist
is given a paddle with a number and we
are called upon we hold our paddles a
loft and we are randomly called upon to
uh to ask our questions if we're lucky
well I won't be at the Dolby Theater
like you guys but I will be watching uh
I'm getting ready to pop the prco the
popcorn um maybe some raisinets um and
and thank you all for sharing your
insights and your thoughts I can't wait
to see the coverage to see who wins the
big night yeah thanks for having us it
was fun thanks for having us don't
forget to order Wolf Gang Puck Pizza so
you can be you know feel like you're
there with us if only they had it in New
[Music]
Jersey a big thank you to Lisa Mike da
and everybody who's covering
Oscars the Reuters world news team
includes Kim Vel Gail Isa David Spencer
Jonah green Christopher walljasper and
myself Sharon R Garson our senior
producers are Tara Oaks and Carmel
kerans our executive producer is Leela
dezer sound design and music composition
is by Josh
summer we'll be back on Monday with our
daily headline show make sure to follow
us on your favorite podcast player or
download the Reuters app
