today Trump touts a Relentless start to
his presidency in a mammoth speech No
More Mr Nice Guy as Canada's Trudeau
lashes out on tariffs and China unveils
its economic
plans it's Wednesday March 5th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Torah Oaks in London
thank you very much and to my fellow
citizens America is back president
Donald Trump marking six weeks into his
second term with a 100 minute speech to
Congress the longest in modern US
History we have accomplished more in 43
days than most
administrations accomplished in four
years or eight years and we are just
getting started speech comes As Trump is
igniting a trade war with sweeping new
tariffs against Mexico Canada and China
after cutting off Aid to Ukraine Trump
signaled Washington's willingness to
move forward with a minerals deal after
a possible ront earlier today I received
an important letter from president
zalinski of Ukraine the sharing some of
the Hallmarks of his rallies Trump
attacked Biden and slammed immigrant
criminals and what he called transgender
ideology there were cheers from
Republicans and Cat calls from Democrats
some of whom walked out reporter Jim
olant is in Washington Jim were there
any big surprises I think the biggest
surprises from the evening is what Trump
chose not to emphasize and he certainly
spent very little time talking about
inflation and the state of the economy
Trump gave the whole issue a short
shrift he was much more comfortable
talking about hot button cultural issues
like transgender rights or boasting
about renaming the Gulf of Mexico
and the other thing that I think was
really was noticeable that for all the
tumult that Trump has stirred up um
terms of Foreign Affairs and America's
relationship with the world he pushed
those topics to the very end of what was
a very long speech 90 minutes he talked
a little bit about Ukraine barely talked
about the Middle East at all how do some
of Trump's claims about the first weeks
of his presidency align with what we've
been seeing well Trump is remember at
his heart a Salesman and marketer and
what he was doing was selling the
country on a version of the early weeks
of his presidency and to hear Donald
Trump tell it there's been a massive
swing in public sentiment toward what
he's done such that a large majority of
Voters now believe the country is on the
right track this hasn't quite Jed with
the facts in fact Reuters and IPOs just
did a two-day poll leading up to the
speech and it told us that actually the
plurality of the public 49% % still
believe the country is on the wrong
track only
34% said it's on the right one what that
tells us is that he still has some work
to do winning over skeptical voters
maybe some who even voted for him but
they're still nervous about economic
issues particularly
[Music]
inflation this is a very dumb thing to
do Canadian Prime Minister Justin
Trudeau forcefully pushing back against
Trump's 25% tariffs Trudeau saying
Canada would respond by immediately
imposing 25% tariffs on $30 billion
worth of us Imports and we are polite
but we will not back down from a fight
Mexico also vowed to retaliate and we'll
get to China's response later in the
show David jungran covers Canadian
politics Trudeau is normally quite
diplomatic but today he was very Frank
with what he thought what Trump was
doing and the effect it would have on
the economies of both countries
Americans will be paying more for
groceries for gas the other thing to
remember is that Trudeau is out of a job
on Sunday when the uh ruling Liberal
Party chooses a new leader to replace
him so I think he felt as though he
could give vent to what he wanted to say
he made quite clear that Trump's reason
for imposing the tariffs which is
Canada's supposed failure to crack down
on drug smuggling was completely bogus
and Trudeau made the point that he
didn't really know what Trump wanted and
therefore wasn't clear how this trade
War could end right so according Trump's
words Trudeau said that Trump had
repeatedly referred to his desire to
destroy the Canadian economy and that
therefore Canada would be easier to
[Music]
Annex Trump made clear in his speech
that market turbulence would not deter
his resolve on tariffs saying further
import taxes will be imposed next month
but hours after this week's tariffs took
effect Commerce Secretary Howard lutnick
told Fox Business Network that Trump may
work out a partial resolution with
Canada and Mexico as soon as today uh
economics editor Dan Burns is here to
help put things in context for us it is
something of a jolt certainly for
investors who had been clinging to the
optimism that this was all a bargaining
Ploy that Trump would eventually back
off but uh there's a lot of concern uh
that these are measures that have left
in place are going to cause economic
harm to the US to the major trading
partners and his insistence on moving
ahead is sending a signal to those not
yet affected that they are very much in
his sits and that's Europe and that's uh
that comes with the reciprocal tariffs
that he's promised to bring to bear we
don't know how long these levies will
last it's quite clear though that uh
this Administration believes that
tariffs are a very effective policy tool
to you know work on with allies and
adversaries alike uh to extract
concessions meet policy goals of a a
wide range not just Economic Policy
goals
[Music]
China's leaders are ramping up stimulus
measures to cushion the economy from the
escalating trade War China's national
peoples Congress kicks off today in
Beijing and the country has set a
bullish growth Target of about 5% for
this year despite us tariffs Anthony
SWAT kovski in Beijing has more what
makes this a very ambitious Target is
the fact that last year we had this sort
of rebound effect from covid so the bar
was really low but this year China
facing huge headwinds when it comes to
tariffs and other restrictions expected
under Trump so how they will be able to
meet around 5% is one big question We'll
be asking this year as well so how are
we beginning to see the effects of
Trump's trade policy on China this is a
major concern for the leadership here
and I think what what xinping and other
Communist Party leaders are hoping for
is that there is still a possibility to
strike a a deal to to come to some kind
of deal with Trump and that he won't
just go super hard on China and
completely decouple but right now all
the signs suggest that the Trump
Administration is going in the opposite
direction Arab countries have adopted
Egypt's plan for Gaza it calls for $53
billion in funding to rebuild the
enclave and avoid displacing
Palestinians it's a sharp contrast to
president Donald Trump's Middle East
Riviera Vision the White House says the
plan does not address gaza's reality and
that Trump stands by his
proposal Pope Francis is in a stable
condition and has not had any new
respiratory crisis according to the
Vatican the pontiff has been in hospital
for nearly 3 weeks battling double
pneumonia and president Trump has hailed
a deal by us firm black Croc to buy
majority shares in ports on either side
of the Panama Canal it puts us firms in
control of the ports amid White House
cause to remove remove them from what it
claims is Chinese
ownership the deal with Hong Kong
conglomerate CK Hutchinson is worth
nearly $23 billion and includes dozens
of other ports around the world and if
you're interested in hearing more about
big business tune in to this week's
episode of reuter's econ world it's all
about consumer conglomerates and why
they're under pressure you can catch it
later today on the Reuters app or
wherever you get your podcasts
and for today's recommended read it's
actually a recommended
watch that's the moment opposition
lawmakers threw smoke grenades and tear
gas inside the Serbian Parliament they
say it's a show of protest against
government policies and in support of
protesting students there's a link to
story and video in the Pod description
for more on any of the stories from
today check out reuters.com or the
Reuters app don't forget to follow us on
your favorite podcast player and we'll
be back tomorrow with our daily headline
show
