today trade policy Whiplash after Trump
delays tariffs on Mexico and Canada how
the courts are hitting paws on the US's
government slashing agenda and arrests
in Romania over an alleged attempt to
overthrow the state with Russia's
help it's Friday March 7th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tara Oaks in
Liverpool president Donald Trump has
suspended the 25% tariffs he imposed
just days ago on most goods from Canada
and Mexico the exemptions expire on
April
2nd it's the latest twist in a
fluctuating trade policy that's causing
Whiplash on financial markets and
Fanning worries over inflation and
growth
Trump's announcement comes ahead of the
latest jobs report out today which could
be an indication of how his rapidly
shifting policies are affecting the US
economy reporter Howard Schneider spoke
to us from Penn Station in New York
about the impact of the latest twist in
US trade policy one thing that people at
the Federal Reserve and economists
generally are getting worried about is
this steady drum beat of news you know
if you tell people tariffs are coming
well no they're not tariffs are coming
no they're not the natural reaction is
to just like hold everything in place
and wait right or to actually pair back
if you think prices are going to rise
either way it's kind of creating a
different Baseline in the minds of
people that they no longer are assured
inflation's under control they might
expect prices to rise and when that
starts to happen and it starts to show
up in some of these expectations surveys
I'll tell you the Federal Reserve gets
very very nervous and and that's a
recipe for them to overreact or be
tighter than they really need to be and
to end up with a you know an unintended
recession and Howard you've been
reporting recently from Virginia on how
all this uncertainty is affecting small
businesses what are they telling you
they're not quite sure what to do uh
take home builders for example I spoke
with a builder down in Richmond and he
said listen it's impossible to get
prices it's impossible for me to set
prices for the most part they still
think demand is strong people are
spending money banks are lending money
and things are good or at least they
were up to a point now they're kind of
little bit shakier on what the six month
next six months to a year might hold so
what can we expect from the jobs report
being released today it may tell you
that they're firing a bunch of federal
workers we already saw a little bit of a
jump in that in in claims data
particularly for the Washington area
whether that translates into lower job
growth you know the government had been
a strong source of hiring over the past
couple of
years over on markets investors are
feeling pretty shook by the continual
shifts in trade policy KL cmans is here
with more so it's interesting that US
Stocks failed to Stage a comeback after
Trump suspended those tariffs on Canada
and Mexico it really speaks to how the
Psycho Drama as Canada's foreign
minister described tariff talks is just
pulverizing investor confidence markets
hate un certainty and they're confused
right now over what happens next the
scale and the speed of the drop in
sentiment is pretty staggering like if
you take the NASDAQ just two weeks ago
it was powering to yet another record
high on the back of those Mega cap tech
stocks now it's in a correction meaning
it's down over 10% since
December wow so that is so
sador oh my gosh I witnessed video
capturing debris from SpaceX streaming
across night sky in the Bahamas my gosh
this like lighting up the water the
Starship spacecraft exploded after
liftoff making this the second failure
for Elon musk's Mars rocket program this
year the FAA had to Halt air traffic in
parts of Florida because of a launch
[Music]
debris Ukrainian President Vladimir
zalinski will travel to Saudi Arabia on
Monday for a meeting with Saudi Crown
Prince Muhammad bin Salman the MBS
meeting comes ahead of talks in in Saudi
later this week with us officials the
plan announced less than a week after
Trump and zelinsky's over office bust up
and in Brussels EU leaders have backed
plans to spend more in defense after the
US froze Aid to
Ukraine this week a divided Supreme
Court said the Trump Administration
could not withhold payment to foreign
aid groups for work they'd already
performed the 5-4 ruling was a legal
setback for the president whose
controversial government slashing agenda
is increasingly getting tied up in the
courts legal reporter Jack Queen is
following a toll in many important
respects the agenda has been kind of
stalled in court but not entirely we've
seen a wave of litigation and we're now
tracking well over a 100 different
lawsuits and they cover a wide range of
topics and so far the results have been
mixed but mostly against the Trump
Administration in the form of temporary
restri tring orders injunctions
preliminary injunctions which are fancy
ways of saying the judge is is telling
them to hold up pause stop doing what
you're doing let's preserve the status
quo and figure this out sort out these
legal issues and so these aren't final
decisions but they are pressing pause on
the roll outs of these policies like
what I think a huge one potentially is
ending automatic Birthright citizenship
in the US that one's on pause there's
also the federal funding freeze pausing
some three3 trillion dollar worth of
funds that go out to various groups and
contractors and entities and so forth
that policy has been put on hold so the
money has continued to flow and we'll
see how that litigation plays out in the
coming months but so far the early
indications are that judges are not
siding with the Trump administration's
perspective on this and seem to be
skeptical of the idea that he can do
this and what about Trump's legal
victories so where the Administration
has enjoyed the most success actually is
with Doge there have been a lot of
lawsuits seeking to block musk and his
deputies there from accessing these
highly sensitive government databases at
all these different agencies and so far
two judges have blocked them from
accessing the treasury Department but
for the most part all the other places
they're trying to get into they've
basically gotten the blessings of the
court so that includes labor health
education agencies things like that so
they've enjoyed their most success there
Romanian prosecutors say they've
detained six people on charges of trying
to overthrow the state with Russia's
hell a 101-year-old former Army Major
General says his home was raided as part
of the investigation Russia's foreign
Ministry has dismissed the accusations
as speculations Louisa IIA has been
following the story in Bucharest so
firstly Louisa sources have attributed
quite a striking name to this group
right yes the organization is named the
Vlad the Impaler commandment it's named
after the medieval Romanian ruler who
inspired Bram Stoker Count Dracula and
who is seen as a symbol for some
hard-right factions in the country what
are they accused of prosecutors said the
group had taken steps to negotiate with
external forces regarding the potential
withdrawal of Romania from uh NATO they
said the group aimed to install a new
government and dissolve the current
constitutional order introduce a new
flag national anthem even changing the
country's name what about this 101y old
former Army General who is he his name
is RoR and prosecutors have said they
consider him a suspect uh they have
raided his house he is a holocaust
denier who has repeatedly praised
Romania's fascist World War II
leadership and he has previously
belonged to a farri party in Romania in
a recorded interview with his daughter
posted on his Facebook page after the
raid and after prosecutors had announced
that he was a suspect he said that he
believed the current government
represented an anti- Romanian State a
system organized to Rob this country and
I'm quoting here the he went on to say
they wasted this country and now they
defend themselves and find reasons to
misinform the public in this recorded
interview the retired army Major General
pretty much confirmed his disdain for
the current political system system but
he did not address the accusations
[Music]
directly the second misil's death in the
US in more than a decade an unvaccinated
New Mexico adult has
died crypto execs are set to meet Trump
at the White House today on the agenda
how to enact his vision to make the US
the crypto capital of the
world an unexploded World War II Tu bomb
has thrown a wrench in the morning
traffic in Paris it was discovered on
Thursday night near paris's busy gun
train station the disruption is
affecting local city lines as well as
National and international
[Music]
trains this has been the honor of my
life serving Canadians a prime
ministerial farewell from Justin Trudeau
who is stepping down on Sunday when
Liberal Party members will select his
successor Canada's ruling party is
capitalizing on a wave of patriotism and
a adting policies designed to appeal to
conservative leaning voters turned off
by Trump in
[Music]
America as we head into the weekend it's
time for a recommendation which is a
recommended listen this week we've got a
special episode of the podcast coming
out tomorrow all about Greenland and why
Trump want it greenlanders are heading
to the polls next week and we talked to
them about whether they want independent
from Denmark and if they want to Pivot
to the US you can catch that pod
tomorrow and find out why the Arctic
Island is so strategically significant
for more on any of the stories from
today check out reuters.com or the
Reuters app don't forget to follow us on
your favorite podcast player and we'll
be back on Monday with our daily
headline show
