today a man hunt is underway for the
gunmen who fatally shot United
healthcare's CEO France's government
collapses with the far right in Focus
Bitcoin hits a new Milestone Trump's
pick to run the defense department faces
a rocky path to the Pentagon and the
Supreme Court wads into the debate over
transgender
rights it's Thursday December 5th this
is world news bringing you everything
you need to know from the front lines in
10 minutes every weekday I'm Tara Oaks
in Liverpool and I'm Jonah Green in New
York this does not appear to be a random
act of violence New York City Police
Commissioner Jessica Tish describing the
fatal shooting of Brian Thompson the CEO
of United Health Insurance unit many
people passed the suspect but he
appeared to wait for his intended target
Thompson was shot Wednesday morning
outside the Hilton in Midtown Manhattan
just before the company's annual
investor conference police say the
gunman arrived outside the Hilton about
5 minutes before Thompson and shot him
in the back as he passed the gunman is
at large and police are still
investigating a motive
[Music]
France's national assembly president
saying prime minister Michel B has to
tend his resignation after opposition
lawmakers brought the government down
with a majority 331 votes in support of
the motion Bar's demise has been cheered
by far right Chief maren Leen who has
sought for years to betray her National
rally party as a government in Waiting
the move has also thrust her 29-year-old
wingman Jordan bardella into the
spotlight Gabriel stargardter is in
Paris so last night as Marine Le Pen was
wielding the knife against Bar's
government bardell was about 5
kilometers away in a sort of upm Market
part of Paris waiting to be greeted by
thousands and I mean thousands of
predominantly young fans waiting to sign
a copy of his book that has kind of
given bardell a pedestal which is stands
in stark contrast to the one that that
Leen now finds herself in which is one
of of questionable utility to herself
and her party Le Pen has been the driver
of Bringing Down the barer government
now her reasons for doing so are up for
debate but many think it's because she's
facing the prospect of being ruled and
eligible for 5 years in a upcoming
corruption trial now she denies the
allegations and says that the
prosecutors are out to kill her
political career so is there any sense
of division internally between bardella
and Leen certainly a lot of people are
saying that with bardella perhaps best
place to benefit from this move or from
her potential ineligibility that maybe
some sort of schism might open up at the
at the very core of the party one moment
that has kind of been flagged by
observers was that as Leen was in the
midst of this corruption trial and being
potentially ruled out of the 2027
election bardel publicly said that
nobody with any criminal conviction
should be allowed to run for for the
national rally was that a little slip up
or was that a calculated move on his
part South Korean opposition lawmakers
said they will vote this weekend to
impeach the president over his botched
attempt to impose martial law and in
Soul president Yun sakol has accepted
the resignation of his defense minister
and nominated a replacement Kim Yong hen
is seen as a central figure in Tuesday's
dearle blamed for advising the move
a record-breaking fenel bust in
Mexico Mexican president Claudia Shin
Bal saying it was the biggest in the
country's history almost Â£22,500 worth
nearly $400
million and president-elect Donald
Trump's new Middle East Envoy has been
on the road already a source tells
Reuters that Steve wickoff traveled to
Qatar and Israel for talks with both
Count's leaders in late November
it was a trip to Kickstart Trump's push
to land a Gaza ceasefire and hostage
release deal before he takes office in
[Music]
January Bitcoin has catapulted above
$100,000 for the first time it's a major
milestone for the cryptocurrency Carl
kriens explains why breing $100,000 is
seen as a kind of coming of age for
Bitcoin and cryptocurrencies generally a
sign that they've moved from the fringes
of Finance to the center of Wall Street
and what's really driving this is the
outcome of the US election Bitcoin has
more than doubled in value this year but
it's up more than 50% in the four weeks
since Donald Trump won the presidency
investors are betting that the new
Administration will be crypto-friendly
so what pushed Bitcoin above the 100K
Mark was Trump's pick to run the
Securities and Exchange Commission
that's wall Street's top regulator he's
going for Paul
who's seen as a crypto proponent and
very different to the current SEC chair
Gary gendler who cracked down on the
sector and sued multiple firms for
allegedly flouting
[Music]
rules Pete Heth Donald Trump's pick to
lead the Department of Defense walking
through the halls of Congress as
reporters shout questions at him Mr hex
you have a drinking problem his meetings
come as some in Congress Express concern
over allegations about his personal and
professional life sources tell Reuters
that Trump has been considering Florida
Governor Ronda santis for the role
should heg Seth
falter reporter Steve Holland is in
Washington DC there are a number of
allegations against Pete hegf that are
dragging him down including too much
drinking his treatment of women and
possibly misusing funds for veterans
organization
he hasn't been able to clear these
hurdles yet as you mentioned he's had a
number of meetings with Senators some of
these seem to be going well there seem
to be a lot of questions raised Heth
went on the Megan Kelly Serius XM radio
show to defend himself he said that he
doesn't have a drinking problem and if
he is confirmed he would never drink
while he is defense secretary so far he
says that president-elect Donald Trump
is is with him but Trump has not said
this publicly hex did not respond to a
request for comment sent through the
Trump transition office nor did Trump's
transition team respond to a request for
comment conservative justices on the US
Supreme Court appear sympathetic toward
the legality of a Tennessee ban on
gender affirming medical care for
transgender miners the law known as sb1
prohibits Medical Treatments like
puberty blockers or hormones for people
under 18 experiencing gender dysphoria
reporter John cruel covers the court so
John obviously this is a highly charged
topic there's the cultural debate but
then there's the legal arguments so what
did the justices hear on Wednesday what
it basically boiled down to was whether
Tennessee's law is compatible with the
Constitutional guarantee of equal
protection under the law or whether the
law violated that constitutional Promise
by discriminating on the basis of sex or
transgender status Tennessee's main
argument was that the health benefits
and risks Behind these drugs is still
being hotly debated M they argued that
states have a duty to protect the Health
and Welfare of its citizens and are well
within the rights to place these sorts
of restrictions on medical care they
argued that the law is not
discriminatory because it applies
equally in preventing both boys and
girls from using these drugs to
transition away from their sex at Birth
and I should note that Tennessee's law
is one of 24 such policies that have
been uh enacted across the country now
on the other side of the argument you
had the Biden Administration and the
ACLU they argued that this law does in
fact discriminate on the basis of sex
and transgender status and to illustrate
their point they noted that Tennessee's
law allows boys who experience early
onset puberty for example example to
take puberty blockers to delay puberty
but they don't allow girls to take
puberty blockers to help them transition
into living and identifying as a boy the
administration in the ACLU argued that
this is unlawful discrimination under
the Constitution and that this harm
outweighs Tennessee's interests here
what are the implications of this case
looking ahead if the court does in fact
rule for Tennessee it would establish a
fairly lenient standard here for
lawmakers to put in place other limits
on transgender people possibly in the
context of things like restroom
restrictions and sports
[Music]
participation today's recommended read
is about China's pivot to hybrids for
its European export Market it's a move
designed to dodge the eu's electric
vehicles tariffs which don't apply to
hybrids and while we're talking China
and EV
take a listen to the latest episode of
our Reuters econ World podcast which is
all about the batteries that power them
up there's a link to today's story and
the Ecom World podcast in the Pod
description for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the roers app don't forget to follow
us on your favorite podcast player we'll
be back tomorrow with our daily headline
show
