today an angry Outburst from the United
Health shooting suspect who will oppose
extradition to New York Israel says it's
destroyed most of Syria's strategic
weapon stockpiles and Tik Tok prepares
to ask the Supreme Court to block a law
that could ban the platform in the
US it's Wednesday December 11th this is
Roy's world news bringing you everything
you need to know from the front lines in
10 minutes every weekday I'm Tara Oaks
in
Liverpool completely out ofou insult the
intelligence of the American people and
experience Luigi Manon yelling to
reporters as he's led into the county
courthouse in holidaysburg
Pennsylvania the 26-year-old is accused
of gunning down United Health executive
Brian Thompson in Manhattan last week
his defense lawyer says manjon intends
to fight his extradition to New York to
face murder charges Julio Cesar Chavez
was in the courtroom and explains what's
next they are planning to fight the
extradition Tom dicki manion's attorney
said in court that the defense is
working to make sure that the state and
the prosecutors go through every step of
the legal process needed in order for
Manion to be extradited from
Pennsylvania over to the state of New
York if you're an American you believe
in the American Criminal Justice System
you had to presume him to be innocent
and none of us would want anything other
than that if that way man and and his
attorney are planning to plead not
guilty to the Blair County charges which
is what he was arrested for including
fraud because of what police are are
allegedly our falsified identification
documents the second trial is the one
that prosecutors in New York are
requesting that be started the murder
trial in the state of New York another
point of contention inside the courtroom
was whether or not Manon would be
allowed bail when it comes to the
extradition case Tom dicki said that
because the charges don't rise to the
level of life without Parole in
Pennsylvania he should be allowed bail
since a crime at least what was set
forth by the district attorney uh was
alleged to be a second deegree murder uh
that's not life without parole so I
believe that the bail should have been
set but the argument that went out
before the judge was from Blair County
District Attorney Peter weeks who said
that no matter how high baale might be
Manon would still be a danger to society
if he had the chance to be
released and
Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is saying he has no intention
of intervening in Syria's Internal
Affairs but will take every step to
ensure Israeli
security it's been a busy 48 hours from
him splitting his time between the
courtroom where he testified for the
first time in his corruption trial and
the War Room from which the Israeli
military has made more than 350 strikes
on Syrian military targets since the
weekend collapse of the Assad
Dynasty here to unpack Israel's
positioning PR us is bureau chief James
McKenzie well Israel has generally been
very pleased by the fall of Assad
obviously he's was a major Ally of their
main enemy Iran I think they're very
cautious about the new regime for one of
a better word in Damascus they very well
aware of their origins in the in the
radical islamist world the connections
with Al and Islamic State even though in
the in the period since their their
creation they've moved distinctly away
from that and they're presenting
themselves a much more moderate Force I
think the Israelis aren't entirely
convinced of that so what have they been
doing in the past 48 to 72 hours they've
basically destroyed as much of the
infrastructure the Syrian military as
they could they've conducted hundreds of
air strikes they've destroyed planes on
the ground tanks uh ships pretty much
everything you can think of to prevent
it getting into the hands of any regime
which they're still seeing as a sort of
jihadist
power a US judge has blocked a $25
billion merger of us grocery store
Giants Kroger and
Albertson the Federal Trade Commission
argued in court that the merger would
eliminate competition leading to higher
prices for Shoppers and hurt unionized
workers South Korean police have raided
President munak yol's Office it's a
dramatic escalation of the probe over
the surprise martial law declaration
that plunged Asia's fourth largest
economy into a constitutional crisis
officials say the defense minister at
the time the close Confidant of Yun also
tried to take his own life while being
held at a Detention Center he's now
reportedly under a and his life is not
currently in
danger a federal Congressman was
assassinated late on Monday in Mexico's
Gul Coast State of verac Cruz is the
latest killing in an outbreak of
political violence in the
country Boeing is restarting production
of its best-selling 737 Max jetliner the
move comes about a month after the end
of a 7we strike by tens of thousands of
factory workers and is seen as essential
to Boeing's financial recovery
Hungarian prime minister Victor Orban
has met with Donald Trump and
billionaire Elon Musk at Mara Lago the
Prime Minister announced a visit on the
social media platform
X an intense Wildfire is burning
Northwest of Los Angeles forcing some
residents in Malibu to evacuate as it
knocked out power and closed
roads a US bankruptcy judge has stopped
the parody news site the onion from
buying conspiracy theorist Alex Jones's
Infowars website ruling that a
bankruptcy auction did not result in the
best possible
bids investors are gearing up for
inflation data out today that will
determine whether the FED will cut or
hold rates next week KL Grims is in New
York for the Reuters next summer and has
been gauging the mood among Wall Street
Executives on the ground so financiers
at the summit were positive about the
prospects for the US economy under
president-elect Donald Trump we had the
CEO of Goldman Sachs David Solomon
saying he was quite optimistic that the
next Administration would be very very
progrowth his words on the European side
Ferrari CEO Benedito vigna is taking the
threat of tariffs in his stride he says
the brand will never make cars in the US
Marinello Ferrari's home base in Italy
is where they make their cars period and
reuter's next continues today with a
host of speakers including Spain's
foreign minister the president of the
New York Stock Exchange and the CEOs of
bny and
Lazard now that Federal appeals court
has upheld a US law requiring Chinese
owned bite dance to spin off Tik Tok the
fate of the social media site which
posts 170 million us users is up in the
air here to walk us through what might
be ahead is Mike scarella he one of our
legal reporters based in DC Things Are
probably move fairly quickly here Tik
Tok asked the court months ago hey let's
get this order out by December 6th
because that will allow us to go to the
US Supreme Court to ask for what's
called emergency relief so now that the
appeals court has ruled big Blockbuster
order last week Tik Tok wants to go to
the Supreme Court to do exactly what it
said it would do and you only do that of
course if you are on the losing side but
there's a quick step before that bite
dance which is the china-based owner of
Tik Tok has as the DC circuit to put its
order on hold recognizing it has to get
to the Supreme Court really quickly and
that's because the law goes into effect
on January 19th one day before the
inauguration so on January 19th absent
any relief by the DC circuit or more
likely the Supreme Court bite dance if
it hasn't divested Tik Tok its assets
there will be no more Tik Tok in in the
United States so what could the highest
court in the land do now the Supreme
Court will be the the court of last
resort in this case bite dance and Tik
Tock had hired one of the country's most
prominent veteran appellant lawyers n
Francisco and it's notable because
because n Francisco formerly was the
Senate confirmed solicitor general
during the first Trump Administration so
clearly I mean you could infer that that
that bite dance and Tik Tock have have
brought on a veteran lawyer who knows
the Supreme Court but also who
simultaneously knows the Trump
Administration the justices are going to
be asked likely to issue what's called
an administrative stay an emergency stay
essentially to to pause the lower
Court's order while the court debates
whether to take up a fuller more robust
appeal they also could try to resolve
the case uh on the merits by January
[Music]
19th and for today's recommended read we
look at whether a US missile defense
system Shield can protect its Pacific
stronghold of Guam from a Chinese
Onslaught the technical challenges are
considerable and people on the island
are worried that missile defenses could
make their home more of a Target there's
a link to the story in today's pod
description for more on any of the
stories from today check out rus.com or
the Roes app don't forget to follow us
to never miss an episode on your
favorite podcast player we'll be back
tomorrow with our daily head n show
