today Russian President Vladimir Putin
eyes the Contours of a trump peace plan
as the G20 Summit wraps world leaders
begin to prepare for Donald Trump
diplomacy his latest cabinet picks World
Wrestling Entertainment co-founder Linda
mcmah and Dr Oz and Trump's criminal
conviction faces an uncertain
future it's Wednesday November 20th this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Christopher walljasper in Chicago
and I'm Carmel KMS in
Dublin we're starting with a reuter's
exclusive according to multiple sources
with knowledge of the kremlin's thinking
Russian President Vladimir Putin is open
to discussing a Ukraine ceasefire deal
with us president-elect Donald Trump
Putin's willingness to talk however
comes with a set of
preconditions Europe editor Rachel
Armstrong joins us Now sources in Russia
who have spoken to our Moscow bureau
chief guy Falconbridge say that the
Kremlin would be open to talks to end
the war in Ukraine but any deal that
Russia would be willing to counter would
involve the conflict being frozen
roughly along the front lines as they
stand Russia would be very reluctant to
seize much of the territory that it has
taken and Russia would also want to see
the idea of Ukraine ever joining NATO
being put to bed Russia is also aware
that as part of any deal Ukraine would
be pushing for some kind of security
guarantee to stop a war from breaking
out again what has Ukraine said Ukraine
has not commented on those reports
President Vladimir zelinski has always
been very clear that he would not be
willing to seed any territory as part of
discussions to end the war these
developments come at a very tense
juncture given the first firings of
attachs into Russian territory and Putin
approving a new nuclear doctrine that
lowers the threshold for a nuclear
strike so on the one hand Russia is
upping the nuclear anti but on the other
hand it's saying that the strike we saw
yesterday caused no damage at all and I
think that's quite interesting because
Putin on the one hand will need to
appease a very hardliners in Russia who
want an incredibly robust response to
what the West has done but he also wants
to be in a position where he can talk to
Donald Trump's Camp without having
antagonize the situation further so it
it's it's an interesting Balancing Act
that Putin has to play right
now Donald Trump has selected three more
cabinet officials Wall Street veteran
Howard lutnick will be his next Commerce
Secretary celebrity doctor me Oz is
Trump's pick to run the centers for
Medicare and Medicaid services and for
Secretary of Education former pro
wrestling CEO Linda McMahon Trump has
proposed abolishing the education
department but would likely need
Congressional approval to do
so
2 Donald Trump joining Elon Musk in
Texas for the test launch of spacex's
sixth Starship test flight that's the
ship that is now uh going around the
earth musk showing Trump the 400t tall
rocket system designed to One Day land
on the moon and carry manned missions to
Mars musk has complained that
regulations by the US Federal Aviation
Administration have slowed progress to a
future Mars
mission Republicans have introduced a
house bill aimed at blocking the first
openly transgender member of Congress
from using women's bathrooms South
Carolina representative Nancy mace
introduced the bill prohibiting house
members and employees from using
bathrooms quote other than those
corresponding to their biological sex
the bill comes just weeks after the
election of Delaware Democrat Sarah
McBride to the house McBride will be the
first openly transgender member of
Congress and no fairy tale ending for
38-year-old Raphael Nadal his tennis
career Drew to a close in defeat on
Tuesday night the 22-time Grand Slam
Champion bowed out of the Davis Cup in
Spain after losing to Dutchman BK van
Des sansul
[Applause]
AI giant Nvidia reports results later
today Nvidia stands out among
competitors and is considered an
indicator of the overall health of the
AI economy Tech reporter Steven Nellis
will be watching probably the biggest
risk to Nvidia in the long term is that
its biggest and most sophisticated
customers at creating AI systems are
also actually developing their own
internal competitors so if you look at
companies like Google and Amazon and
Microsoft they are all developing their
own chips that could eventually replace
Nvidia but right now there's no
indication that those efforts are really
taking a huge bite out of next year's
business and sticking with AI we're all
about it on this week's episode of
reuter's econ World we're looking at how
we deal with machines that are smarter
than us in the not too distant future
you can catch it on reuters.com the
Reuters app or wherever you listen to
your
[Music]
podcasts while Donald Trump prepares for
the next four years of his
administration one matter May remain in
limbo until the end of his term the
sentencing for his criminal conviction
over a hush money payment to an adult
film star a judge has paused all
proceedings ahead of next week's
scheduled sentencing
trumps said the case should be dismissed
now that he's been elected to a second
term Luke Cohen has been covering the
case in Manhattan so Luke what's behind
the prosecutor's request to pause the
case so prosecutors really had a dilemma
here which is that Trump had been
convicted but he had not yet been
sentenced then when he won the election
the prosecutors really had to decide
what do we do here because on the one
hand a jury has convicted him they have
respect for that and on the other hand
they have said in court filings that
they deeply respect the Office of the
President and they were concerned that
any possible sentence could have somehow
impeded with Trump's ability to govern
so how might this all play out I I think
this removes pretty much all doubt as to
whether or not the sentencing will go
forward before Trump is inaugurated and
then as to how the judge rules on
Trump's motion to dismiss the case
eventually I think is is anyone's guess
he he could side with the district
attorney and say look it's not fair to
expect the president to deal with this
case while he is President so I will
pause it but he was duy convicted by a
jury that there's certainly a world in
in which Trump could face sentencing in
this case after leaving office that said
his lawyers have vowed to appeal this
verdict altogether so while it's
certainly possible that Trump would face
sentencing after leaving office it's not
at all guaranteed
[Music]
international relations are getting
trickier German Chancellor Olaf Schulz
saying geopolitical tensions are having
an impact on this year's G20 Summit in
Rio de Janeiro the impending return of
Donald Trump as US president has world
leaders bracing for drama and one of his
top allies argen time president Javier
mle gave them an early taster at the
meeting Brad Haynes is our Brazil Bureau
Chief and is in Rio this is the group of
the world's 20 biggest economies and
that just naturally it makes it very
hard to speak with a common voice which
is why the great feat of the G20 every
year is is arriving at any joint
statement but that consensus was almost
derailed at the last minute when
Argentine president Javier M who was
coming off of a meeting at maral Lago
with the newly elected Trump he was the
first foreign minister to meet with
Trump since his election and he came in
the G20 spoiling for a fight so even
before he arrived these Argentine
negotiators they were in the room with
all of their peers from the G20 trying
to hammer out this joint statement and
all of a sudden one of them says we got
a call from the Argentine president and
we've got a much harder position they
they started drawing red lines on a
series of these issues and it was very
clear that mle was coming to send a
message he decried joint statements
calls for progressive taxation gender
equality an Embrace of the United
Nations sustainable development goals
and you could hear Echoes of the Trump
agenda coming back to the center of
global Affairs a spokesman from laay
didn't respond to a request for comment
about the
[Music]
summit today's recommended read offers
insights on Chinese president XI
jinping's diplomatic tour of South
America it's highlighting beijing's
growing clout in the region as well as
how it's filling the vacuum left by the
US Presidential transition a link to the
story is in the Pod description we'll be
back tomorrow with our daily headline
show for more on any of the stories you
heard today check out reuters.com or the
Reuters app and to make sure you never
miss an episode follow on your favorite
podcast player or down download the
Reuters app
