[Music]
hi my name is Ryan Ryan Freeman a
volunteer with missourians for
constitutional freedom is knocking on
doors in Kansas City Missouri to ask
people to vote for Amendment Three it's
a measure appearing on the state's
November 5th ballot that would establish
a constitutional right to abortion uh do
do you plan on voting yes for those um
yeah okay on November 5th do you have
any that's a tough cell in a deeply R
State like Missouri but since roie Wade
was struck down in 2022 seven states
have put the issue of abortion to voters
directly in the abortion rights
campaigns have won every vote even in
Kentucky and Kansas and on Election Day
at least nine more States will vote on
abortion measures including the
Battleground states of Arizona and
Nevada on this weekend episode of rers
world news we behind the scenes of the
fight for abortion rights in Missouri
we'll also travel to Georgia where
activists are raising awareness about
reproductive Justice for black women and
we'll discuss how both of these causes
might impact the ballot come November
5th I'm your host Jonah
[Music]
green our reporter Gabriella border
recently spent time in Missouri with
Rachel sweet a former Planned Parenthood
lobbyist sweet is an activist who's on
something of a winning streak when it
comes to fighting for abortion rights
she helped successfully defeat ballot
measures to make abortion illegal in
Kansas and Kentucky now she's fighting
for murans to have the right to abortion
legally enshrined in the state's
Constitution Gabriella welcome to the
show hello so s's first big win was in
Kansas tell us about how that went down
Rachel directed an Rights Campaign in
Kansas which is a pretty conservative
State and that state voted on a ballot
measure in the summer of 2022 which
would have declared that there was no
right to abortion in the Kansas
Constitution and Rachel led the campaign
that defeated that ballot measure which
was shocking to onlookers around the
country who would have assumed that
Kansas being a very conservative state
may not not have defeated such a ballot
measure and sided with the abortion
rights campaigners but Rachel led the
campaign that proved them wrong and then
she went on to lead a very similar
campaign in Kentucky later that year in
2022 in the general election and Kansas
and Kentucky were two of the first
somewhat surprising abortion rights wins
in these ballot measure campaigns post
row I'm doing this because it matters to
me personally and I'm doing this because
I know countless women who have needed
access to abortion and other types of
reproductive healthare Rachel s told me
that she sees this as an issue of
women's equality
fundamentally and she likes conducting
these ballot measure campaigns when it's
possible to do so it's a way to enact
real substantive change pretty rapidly
after investing a ton of money into
these campaigns it it can guarantee
faster change than is guaranteed
sometimes by voting for a candidate and
hoping they're going to do what you want
them to do when they get into office
Missouri is really the first time where
we're going to be able to go from zero
access to these really solid protections
for Reproductive Rights in our state
constitution but Missouri is also pretty
conservative so how does she make
inroads with this
community Rachel is very dedicated to
running
nonpartisan campaigns for abortion
rights because she knows in States like
Kansas Kentucky Ohio and now Missouri
abortion rights campaigners have to win
over Republican and independent voters
in order to be
successful and to do that requires
reaching out across the political aisle
this is not purely about mobilizing a
base right this is about really talking
to voters who may feel conflicted about
the issue of abortion with complicated
feelings around the subject and finding
common ground with them and shared
values it requires getting Faith leaders
on board and Physicians and other
surrogates for the campaign who are
trusted in communities that are not just
staunch Democrats who some might expect
would vote for abortion rights she's
from these communities I mean she is
from Kansas City
uh so the Kansas campaign was very close
to home for her she did move to direct
the Kentucky campaign but now she's back
in her home state of Missouri and she
knows missourians she is able to talk to
people who maybe oppose abortion on a
religious or moral ground and say it's
okay for you to vote for abortion rights
even if you go to church every Sunday
she too goes to church most Sundays
she's of the community and people that I
spoke to who have worked with her say
that that is one of the reasons why
she's especially good at getting an
unlikely Patchwork of Voters to unite
behind the idea that the government
should not be able to regulate abortions
in the strict way that the government is
currently regulating abortions in
Missouri is this something that will
have a significant political impact on
November 5th because we know some people
can split their vote I mean just look at
polling in Arizona which shows Trump
ahead of Harris while in the senate race
the Democrat is Miles Ahead of his
Republican rival Missouri is not in play
for vice president kamla Harris as her
campaign sees it it voted for Trump over
Biden by 15 points in 2020 and it's not
considered a swing state that being said
a couple of states that have abortion
ballot measures this year are in play
Such as Arizona and Nevada and Democrats
are sort of hoping that they might be
able to ride the the popularity of these
abortion rights ballot measures to get a
boost for the actual candidates who
support abortion rights who are on the
ballot this year that may or may not
work out for them sometimes voters who
are Centrist and right leaning who
support abortion rights are able to
split their vote and kind of check the
box of supporting abortion rights by
voting maybe yes on a ballot measure
like Missouri that will establish a
right to abortion and then kind of go
back to their right-leaning roots and
vote for Donald Trump over kamla Harris
in the presidential election and if
enough people do that in in swing States
then the ballot measures may not be any
help to the Democratic candidates on the
ticket however there is a chance that if
people are thinking about abortion
rights and leaning towards supporting
abortion rights in a ballot measure
maybe they would lend support to the
Democratic candidates that also back
abortion rights but time and again
ballot measures are more popular than
candidates are voters tend to support
more progressive ballot measures in more
conservative States then they would
support a progressive candidate that is
from
experts who study ballot measure
campaigns and kind of look at the
writing on the wall after elections like
this but don't Democrats expect or hope
that these measures might make the
difference especially in swing States
Democrats see it as an advantage when
abortion is on the ballot because
abortion has been a really mobilizing
issue for the Democratic base and for
people in the center since row was
overturned when the Supreme Court
overturned row that was a widely
unpopular decision
and Democrats kind of credit the
popularity of the abortion rights
movement post Row for their success in
the Congressional midterm elections in
2022 they are hoping that they can ride
the coils of the popularity of abortion
rights especially in swing states that
have abortion on the ballot through
these ballot measures and that could
potentially make a difference for them
in States like Arizona and Nevada where
we're expecting the presidential
election to be really really
[Music]
close my daughter amber made me so proud
just this week the Harris campaign began
running an ad featuring the family of
Amber Thurman a 28-year-old Georgia
woman who died in
2022 after being denied medical
treatment for experiencing complications
linked to medication abortion what
happened to her was preventable Amber's
story has become a lightning rod for the
abortion debate but deaths while
receiving reproductive care are
unfortunately far too common for black
women us race and Justice correspondent
Bianca flowers has been on the ground in
Georgia talking with Reproductive Rights
groups politicians and community members
and she joins us now hi Bianca hi Jonah
your recent article is about how
activist groups are aiming to mobilize
specifically women of color around
efforts to address Healthcare in
equities and this campaign is is known
as reproductive justice so so what does
that mean exactly reproductive Justice
is really rooted in a 30-year movement
that expands beyond the framework of
Reproductive Rights so that's addressing
a broader social political economic
factors that impact black women's
ability to raise children in safe
environments supportive environments and
specifically when it comes to the health
care resources and the accessibility
that black black women have so this
movement was founded you know in the
1990s uh in response to really
mainstream Reproductive Rights movements
which often focus on issues like access
to abortion contraception without
considering the unique struggles of
marginalized communities black women
women of color and so as we noted in our
story and uh which is pretty well known
is that black women are three to four
times more likely to die from pregnancy
related complications than white women a
real world example would be and which is
pretty prevalent in comment sadly is
that when black women are in hospitals
their pain level threshold is considered
to to be higher so what I've heard from
black women black mothers repeatedly is
that I can say I'm in pain and not
believed I can say I'm not feeling well
or something isn't right particularly
women that are are pregnant and some way
they feel off they are the dismissed or
their claims not being taken seriously
and that is exactly what francisa Shaw
experienced I remember I told my doctor
when I was getting cut I can't breathe
and she said oh yeah you can when she
was giving birth to her third daughter
at a Seattle hospital she had to be
rushed into an emergency sea section
while undergoing that sea section she
had some breathing complications and I
and I end up looking at my husband and
started screaming like I can't breathe
help me her claims are brushed off which
led to a very traumatic birthing
experience for her that's something that
that's that's pretty common and that
I've heard a lot of stories about when
they cut me open they um they uh cut my
uterus um and uh it ruptured my uterus
and it bled out and it caused all the
heart issues and the blood clotting and
all that things like that given that
experience that she had gone through it
led her to becoming a doula currently in
in Atlanta where she spends a lot of her
time actually offering these services
for free for women of color who don't
really have disposable income to to pay
for these Services themselves it's
really sad about how many women are
losing their lives because they they
literally just want to extend their
expand their families she told me as a
voter in the Battleground state of
Georgia that reproductive Health
particularly black maternal health and
black maternal mortality is one of the
issues that she cares
about are reproductive Justice activists
trying to mobilize voters around this
issue absolutely they are they consider
this to be the most opportune time to do
so not only the most critical time uh
since roie Wade has been overturned but
the most Optimum time to do this and
with the first African-American South
Asian woman being the Democratic
presidential candidate um and speaking
on these very issues it's really a now
or never for them and in States like
Georgia which as we know is a very
important swing state in this election
the problem is even more pronounced is
that right that's absolutely correct in
States Southern States specifically that
have larger populations of
African-American or black people like
Georgia there is a significant not only
maternal mortality but infant mortality
rate and these states with higher
populations of black people those are
the states that have outright abortion
bans or extremely restrictive abortion
banss and access to abortion care and
the Dos decision which led to the
overturning of of roie Wade has had a
significant impact on black maternal
Health which has really translated to
limited access and reproductive
healthare including abortion which
disproportion affects black women with
these restrictive laws black women have
encountered even more barriers to
receiving timely Comprehensive Health
Care and what we're seeing is cases with
black women having died because they
couldn't get or they were delayed or
denied access to emergency care and
these are treatable conditions that
could have saved their lives and that
being emergency pregnancy related
conditions not even abortion abortion is
is obviously a very partisan issue
Democrats support abortion rights
Republicans don't but reproductive
Justice maternal Health this sounds less
partisan but is it still a partisan
issue in terms of you know activists
work on the ground or support amongst
say Republicans I've spoken to a few
black Republican women and while they
don't support abortion they are in
support of finding a solution a
bipartisan legis proposals to address
the black maternal mortality crisis and
the poor health outcomes of black women
so that's something that they are
certainly aligned on and so how is the
Harris campaign seizing on this issue so
we know that vice president Harris and
the current Administration has actually
outlined policy one being the blueprint
to address uh the maternal morality
crisis that is which was announced in in
2022
she has addressed the the crisis of of
uh black maternal Health black maternal
mortality speaking in States like
Georgia speaking on the cases of the two
women in Georgia who died um from both
treatable pregnancy related conditions
but what I'm hearing from Advocates is
that they would like to hear more spec
explicit and specific policy proposals
about what Paris Administration would do
and one thing that I heard that was
pretty interesting from a professor that
I spoke to is that with haris speaking
possibly so prominently on black
maternal health issues she may run the
risk of alienating folks that aren't
really aligned or even aware of these
disparities inequities that black
mothers
[Music]
face thanks again to Gabriella and
Bianca for their time and their
reporting rers R news is produced by
Gail Isa Sharon Rish Garson David
Spencer Christopher Wall Jasper and me
Jonah green our senior producers are
Tara Oaks and Carmel crims our executive
producer is Leela dzer sound design and
musical composition by Josh
summer we'll be back on Monday with our
daily headline show to stay on top of
election related news make sure to
subscribe on your favorite podcast
player or download the Roy app
[Music]
