[Applause]
a lot has changed in the eight years
since Donald Trump first took the oath
of office as president I Donald John
Trump do solemnly
swear covid-19 January 6th inflation
impeachments criminal cases War but one
thing that hasn't changed is Americans
desire to have Trump upend the known
political order and so voters have
invited him back into the White House on
Monday he'll take the oath once again
and will waste no time in enacting his
vision for the
country on this weekend episode of
reuter world news we'll talk with our
politics team on what to expect from
inauguration day and Beyond I'm your
host Jonah green
[Music]
Steve Holland covers the White House and
James olant has been covering the Trump
campaign and now the transition and they
join us today hello everybody hello
hello so we're getting some breaking
news here about a venue change for the
inauguration Trump now says because of
severe cold weather forecast for Monday
in Washington the whole thing is going
to be held indoors this year and it's
going to take place in the capital
rotunda Steve has this ever happened
before this has has happened before it's
been 40 years since it's happened when
Ronald Reagan was inaugurated for his
second term in 1985 he moved the
ceremony indoors because of the cold it
was like under zero wind chill factor
during that time period And So Reagan
made the choice to to move this indoors
and then what happens to the parade
where they're going to put as many
people as possible in the Capital One
Arena will where Trump will have H held
a rally the night before okay so the
inauguration will look a little
different this year what about Donald
Trump how has he changed since 2017
what's different about Trump this time
he knows the levers of power he knows
more about the job that he's taking over
what what we're told during the
transition time that he has been very
deliberate uh working on Personnel
making decisions personally on who gets
what job making sure they're loyal is a
different Trump we're seeing this time
and I I think part of it is the
experience and part of it is the having
been shot at twice last year during the
campaign Trail has maybe altered his
attitude a little bit but he's bound and
determined to shake up Washington and I
I think we'll we'll see that happen as
much as he can well I would add to that
too that the circumstances have changed
a bit from when he first entered office
in 2017 he entered the White House under
a bit of a cloud he hadn't won the
popular vote it seems like he had
squeaked by in a handful of states he
was angry about that he was angry about
people doubting the legitimacy of his
victory and of course we can't forget
that he had the Russia investigation
hanging over his head for a couple of
years into his presidency and it was a
daily you know we heard daily complaints
from Trump about the Witch Hunt about
Jim Comey he was really obsessed in his
early time in office and that's all gone
so will we see Trump try will he to
create new enemies new opponents to stay
fueled or will you know he fill his days
in other ways that's one of the real
interesting questions for me now Trump's
first inaugural speech was pretty dark
this American Carnage stops right here
and stops right now any idea what his
Focus this time will be because during
the campaign he did repeatedly say that
the country was a failing country and a
disaster well Trump will probably
revisit some of the dark themes of his
earlier inaugural address he wants to
set the tone for the early days of his
white house maybe the first hundred days
a lot of those first 100 days will be
consumed with carrying out executive
orders on immigration he's threatened a
mass deportation will that actually
happen will he only do the criminals
that he considers should be expelled but
I suspect that he will have some Stern
language on the direction he wants to
take the country and so there's the
speech um but I see there will also be
some notable musical performances as
well yes he's going to have the the
Village People in in person uhhuh and
two of the their songs are signature
songs of trump rallies Macho Man and
YMCA yeah uh YMCA is played at the end
of every single Trump event and you'll
see that kind of Herky jerky dance that
that Trump does without without moving
his feet I find it very graceful it's
it's and car Underwood is is also
performing um on the ceremonial stuff
like is he going to meet the bidens
again like how much of the previous
historical nities are still going to be
followed this year well it's a a
carefully scripted day and it what
usually happens is the incoming
president will stay at Blair House which
is right across the street from the
white house the trumps will stay there
they get up on Monday morning he's going
to go to a church service at St John's
Episcopal Church right across the park
from the White House and that you'll
remember that's where he went during the
George Floyd protest and held up the
Bible and that famous photo then they
will go to the White House proper and
have a tea with the bidens usually the
outgoing and incoming presidents will
ride up up to the capital together I
suspect that will happen again and then
you have the ceremony the inaugural
address and afterward there's a lunch
with lawmakers and all this is this has
happened many inaugurals before and
after that Biden will exit The Far Side
of the capital get on a helicopter and
leave and probably do a fly by of
Washington DC MH and then Trump will get
into a heavily armored vehicle back to
the White House wow so once that's all
wrapped up it's time to get to business
what are we expecting day one from the
man who once choked he would be a
dictator only on day one well they are
preparing uh dozens of executive orders
and directives for him to sign on the
first day now now whether he'll go
through all of these things on day one
is unclear the the Trump team the
transition team the lawyers have all
been reviewing the language trying to
get all these things ready at some point
it'll be put in front of the Trump and
say here here do you want this do you
want this do you want this and he'll
decide which orders he can carry out on
day one his people tell us that he does
want to have a shock and awe appearance
on that day one to put all these things
out many of the orders will relate to
restricting immigration increasing
energy output in the United States maybe
announcing his plans to impose tariffs
on Imports oh so tariff could be a day
one thing tariffs usually have to go
through a like a regulatory process run
by the Commerce department so he I don't
think he will impose tariffs on day one
but he would announce his intention to
take us policy in that direction can we
talk a little bit about the money that
goes into the inauguration in every
inauguration there is this fund that
people donate to the inaugural fund but
this time around there have been some
high-profile donations from Silicon
Valley that are getting a lot of
attention and it is all even more
relevant now that Biden's closing
message is that there's an oligarchy
about to dismantle democracy now he did
not name anybody specifically but there
will be some prominent Tech CEOs on the
stage for the inauguration so first how
normal or abnormal is this amount of
money and this amount of billionaires
well I mean the truth is there's always
been money involved in planning and
executing the inauguration because the
taxpayers can only cover the ceremony at
the capital and so it's up to the
incoming president to finance everything
else and that is the parade the balls
the stands by the White House everything
so it's a situation that is sort of ripe
for corporate influence and corporate
donations but Trump is certainly not the
first president to benefit from
corporate support at his inaugural both
Biden and Barack Obama and George Bush I
this has been a long running thing now
it may be unusual for industry Titans
like an Elon Musk or Mark Zuckerberg to
be sitting adjacent to the president
when he is being sworn in but in terms
of undercutting democracy or money has
always flowed this way I think the last
estimate I saw is that Trump and his
committee have raised something like
$170 million for this and um which is
significantly more than they raised back
in 2016 mhm and of course everyone talks
about this is you know access and pay to
playay but there are no limits on what
you can give this committee but Trump
has certainly especially since winning
the election shown a real Affinity now
for these Tech Executives MH and and
part of is is these CEOs now realizing
which way the wind blows and they don't
want the heavy hand of the government to
come down on them and will all this
money be spent for the inauguration
itself I I would think not I mean it's
such a huge slush fund that there's no
way you can you know a ball you can have
a dozen balls and it's not going to soak
up $170 million I read somewhere this
week that a lot of this money will go
toward different organizations of super
pack here a super pack there that will
ultimately be supportive of trump causes
so that money's not just going to be
spent in Washington DC on Monday I see
reports that Tik Tok CEO will be on the
platform as well a day after the app is
shut down in the US do we know anything
about that well I think it it's a a last
minute move to try to Lobby the Trump
White House to come up with some sort of
workaround so that Tik Tok doesn't have
to shut down and um you know sort of a
measure uh you know say he Mary yeah and
we'll see I mean certainly we have read
that that Trump has made noises about
wanting to do something because he likes
the platform and he likes the fact that
he has a lot of supporters on the
platform so you know this is there's
nothing subtle about this this is Tik
Tok trying to save its neck there does
seem to be a lot of enthusiasm in the
business and finance world for the
second coming of trump why are they so
happy I would say that they anticipate
business-friendly policies from Donald
Trump he's already signaled plans for a
tax cut he needs to extend the the Trump
tax cuts I believe it's by the end of
this year to keep those in place and a
lot of people benefit from these but the
wealthy do
significantly that's drawing some
support for Trump from that the business
world and one of the things that that
they'll have to reckon with though is if
they deport a lot of Migrant workers a
lot of these businesses who rely on
those workers are going to say hey we
got to keep some of these people here to
just for the economy to function and
that that's a decision that Trump will
have to make down the road and there's
also a concern that the tariffs when
they are imposed will drive up prices
again for American consumers which could
put a a a dent into the economy just
when Trump is trying to grow it but you
know a lot of this stuff operates on
optimism um sometimes the economy can be
a self-fulfilling prophecy where people
are you know where businesses and
investors feel optimistic drives the
market up and things look like they're
in good shape but and I would add too
that Trump has has said that he wants to
ease regulatory burdens on businesses
which is always the number one complaint
that corporations have about government
and of course Trump has a republican
Congress so he may able to get through a
lot of the stuff that he's actually
promised now past day one you have
reported a piece recently on plans
within Trump World to really Target what
they call the Deep state so what might
that effort look like this time around
and what might that do to the federal
government well and let's let's be clear
about what Trump thinks the Deep state
is it's a group of individuals in his
mind and it could be you know dem ratic
lawmakers longtime career government
officials the media anybody who stood in
the way of his agenda the first time
around and he has sworn he and his
allies have sworn to try to exert more
control over the Executive Branch during
the second term So to that end what
Trump and his allies are looking to do
is basically take 50,000 or more jobs
that exist in the federal government
right now that belong to you know what
we call career bureaucrats these or
administrators who stay on from
Administration to Administration they're
not supposed to be political they're not
supposed to be ideological they're the
people who act basically have the
institutional memory at these agencies
and they're the ones that keep it
functioning from president president
well what Trump wants to do is he wants
to knock out a whole layer of these
people and replace them with political
appointees that he and his White House
will know will Faithfully execute his
policy directives because as I said
before they blame people in the Justice
Department people in the Department of
Education people in the labor department
for either slow walking or downright
obstructing their directives during his
first term so this is Trump's attempt to
get around that add more control MH over
these institutions the public sector
unions that represent these workers say
that this is illegal and that they're
going to sue over it so this is not
something that Trump is going to be able
to accomplish overnight or easily as
others have noted Trump Starts day one
as a lame duck president since you know
he baring any constitutional changes can
only serve one term on the other hand
he's referred to as the most powerful
executive in memory so so which is a
more accurate read well in a way that
they they're both true I mean he will be
a lame duck soon after taking office
that's why he wants to jam as much as he
can into the first 100 days as possible
to to just set the tone for the rest of
his term but he will also wield enormous
power not only from the white house but
he controls both houses of Congress and
as long as he's putting forth policies
that they can stomach then they will
support him and and he'll be able to get
a lot done over the next four years and
I would add to that too that in a way
Trump is Freer to do things because he
doesn't have to stand for reelection
again so he may be in a position to
propose more radical changes or policies
than he may have if he was worried about
coming back to the voters although I
will note that members of Congress will
have to face the voters both in two
years and four years so that may put a
cap on how far they are willing to go in
some areas like like say cutting
benefits Social Security you know
Medicare something like that and and he
will play a role in picking or
handpicking his next successor I mean
who who replaces him will he throw his
support behind the vice president JD
Vance possibly but there's a whole Cod
of other Republicans eager to run
including people like Arkansas governor
Sarah Sanders who who was his White
House Press Secretary for a period Ronda
Santos of Florida there's a whole long
list of people and Trump will probably
want to play a role in deciding who's
going to replace him or let's not forget
too that you know Trump is not a young
man Biden came into office as in his
late 70s and we did see some physical
decline in over the years so will that
happen with Trump uh we don't know where
will the Trump crowd hang out now that
he sold his DC Hotel I mean the former
Trump International Hotel was the
physical manifestation of the Maga scene
so where where's Giuliani gonna go well
I don't think Giuliani can afford to go
to the Trump Hotel anymore true he's got
he's got a lot of legal a lot of legal
cases well listen this is such a popular
question that the Trump organization and
and Trump's family have discussed
reacquiring the rights to the place wow
because they are interested in having a
place where you know allies can stay and
foreign dignitaries can stay and Trump
can go have a meal and not be bothered
and feel comfortable so um you know and
people that Steve and I have spoken to
have said well maybe they'll just go to
the hotel anyway which is right now a
waldorf Historia how is the Press
supposed to cover this person who is
still a unique presence in Washington
he's loose with the truth he's made some
authoritarian threats so what is what is
the press's role this time around well
our our role is going to be very similar
to what it was before to cover
Faithfully what he's doing and also
cover Faithfully the ramifications of
his policies now we expect some blowback
from them over the direction we try to
take things that's very possible but we
will execute our mission as always uh we
will cover what he's doing and provide
the proper context and call into
question policies as we would normally
do under under any President we we'll
just take it one day at a time now we we
are expecting some friction we may be in
for a rough ride but but hey we're we're
tough and we'll be right there every day
yes they may um they may punish Outlets
who write negative stories they will
play games with access they may
reorganize the White House briefing room
mhm to favor conservative Outlets we
don't know how often they're going to be
briefing the press these are all sorts
of questions that that are going to have
to be answered but I do think we you
know need to show the American public
too that we are honest Brokers here and
we are interested in a fact based
coverage that we are not an opposition
party we are chroniclers and to that end
if we can just provide a faithful report
that people can trust I think we've done
our job
[Music]
[Applause]
thanks again to Steve and Jim for their
time and their expertise rotors world
news is produced by Gail Isa Sharon R
Garson Christopher Wall Jasper David
Spencer and me Jonah
green our senior producers are Tara Oaks
and Carmel Kens our executive producer
is Leela dzer musical composition and
sound design by Josh
summer we'll be back on Monday with our
daily headline show to make sure you
never miss an episode click follow on
your preferred podcast platform or
download the Reuters app
[Music]
