today a ceasefire deal in Lebanon but
garans fear abandonment Donald Trump's
threatening tough tariffs in an effort
to curb fenel President Biden's push to
approve glp1 weight loss drugs for
Medicaid and Medicare and the US
prepares for a supersized portion of
economic data ahead of
Thanksgiving it's Wednesday October 27th
this is Ro world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tara Oaks in Liverpool and I'm
Christopher wal Jesper in
Chicago I'm pleased to announce that
their governments have accepted the
United States proposal to end the
devastating conflict between Israel and
Hezbollah President Joe Biden announcing
the ceasefire broken by the US and
France which came into effect this
morning of 400 a.m. local time in
Lebanon and Israel he says the deal is
designed to be a permanent cation of
[Music]
hostilities the news has been met with
celebrations in the southern Lebanese
city of
Tire as a group stood by a road cheering
and throwing rice at cars driving past
while in sidon displaced people started
packing their
belongings in preparation to return to
their villages in the South under the
terms of a truce Israel will gradually
withdraw its forces over the next 60
days as lebanon's army takes control of
a territory near the border to ensure
Hezbollah does not regroup
there but as this ceasefire takes hold
what of the Palestinians in Gaza without
a similar deal with Hamas gazans are
feeling abandoned and fearful that
Israel will focus squarely on its
Onslaught in The Enclave
nidal Al mrai is our senior
correspondent reporting on Gaza many
among the Palestinians especially in
Gaza feel the world has not put enough
pressure and effort in order to reach a
similar ceasefire agreement in Gaza some
remains hopeful that the United States
Arab mediators will now Focus their
efforts to reach a deal in in Gaza that
will end the war with Israel and in GA
suffering but the voice of pessimism
actually is higher so what could this
ceasefire mean for Hamas and the war in
Gaza Hamas blames the lack of an
agreement of ceasefire in the Gaza Strip
on the Israeli side and we also know
that the Israeli side and prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has redly accused
Hamas of failing the efforts to reach a
ceasefire so this continued dispute
between Hamas and and Israel is what is
holding an agreement in the Gaza
Strip China's defense minister is under
investigation for corruption according
to a Financial Times report he's the
third consecutive serving or Former
Defense Minister to be investigated for
alleged corruption in a probe which is
Royal to the top ranks of the people's
Liberation Army the Chinese foreign
minist says the ft is chasing
Shadows the prosecutor of the
international criminal court says he is
seeking an arrest warrant for myanmar's
military leader the warrant would be for
crimes against humanity over the alleged
persecution of the rohinga a many Muslim
minority former Pakistani prime minister
Imran Khan's party has suspended Street
protests demanding his release from jail
according to local media that's after a
sweeping midnight raid by security
forces in the capital Islamabad in which
hundreds of people were
arrested president-elect Donald Trump
has chosen trade lawyer Jameson Grier as
his new US trade
representative he's a key veteran of
Trump's first term trade war against
China and points to a bruising four
years for trade negotiations the world
over gria served as Chief of Staff to
Trump's former US trade representative
Robert liser the architect of Trump's
original tariffs on billions of dollars
worth of Chinese Imports and the
renegotiation of a North American free
trade deal with Canada and
Mexico curbing the flow of fentanyl is
one of the reasons Trump's given for new
proposed tariffs on Mexico China and
Canada many of the ingredients used to
manufacture the drug come from China and
are then used to produce the drug in
Mexico before it finds its way over the
US border
where more than 400,000 Americans have
died from overdosis in the last decade
our us China relations reporter Michael
Martina has been looking into how Trump
might use this economic weapon to
address a drug epidemic usually tariffs
traditionally have been employed as a
means to sort of address trade
imbalances that's certainly what Trump
tried to do in his first term here it
seems to be a little bit different in
that Trump is essentially resorting to
his weapon of choice which is tariffs to
create leverage in a sort of diplomatic
relationship with China so how else is
Trump looking to tackle the fentanyl
crisis well obviously China is one
aspect of the fentanyl crisis Trump has
been much more direct in saying how
he'll go after the sort of the the
Mexico leg of this he he wants to name
the cartel's terrorist organizations and
he's even invoked using the US military
to uh to crack down and how that plays
out with Mexico that's going to be one
of the most interesting things to watch
here early in the Trump Administration
how has China responded to these
allegations that it's involved in the
flow of fenel well China's been adamant
all along that this idea that it's sort
of intentionally fueling this crisis
they say it's ridiculous in response to
Trump's statements they've always said
that a trade war will serve no one and
frankly it seems that with the Chinese
economy in sort of tough shape at the
moment a trade war is not something they
really want to fight and um I think
perhaps the incoming Trump
Administration assesses some of that and
wants to make a a press there now
Mexico's president Claudia Shin bomb
warned on Tuesday that Trump's tariffs
would bring dire economic consequences
for both countries and suggested
possible
[Music]
retaliation President Joe Biden is
proposing an expansion of Medicare and
Medicaid coverage to include
anti-obesity drugs like OIC wovi and
Manjaro the move could make these
expensive glp1 drugs far more affordable
for millions of Americans but it's not a
done deal our White House reporter
Andrea shalal has been looking into how
this proposed change might play out so
until now Medicare has not covered the
use of these drugs simply for the
diagnosis of obesity you had to have
another underlying condition so this
move will make it possible for people
who previously wouldn't have been able
to afford these medications and the the
bottom line really is that this is about
long-term Health outcomes so it will
cost the government to pay for these
drugs for people but the savings will be
huge down the road if you have have
fewer people with diabetes and with
heart disease but in the end this rule
really depends on the Trump
Administration right yeah it's a very
good point these things wouldn't take
effect until 2026 and they would require
approval by the Trump Administration and
one key member of Trump's cabinet could
be Robert F Kennedy Jr who opposes these
drugs and says Americans should lose
weight by eating healthier but he's also
said that he wants to choose mahmmed AZ
the television personality and surgeon
to be the administrator of the centers
for Medicare and Medicaid services which
is the agency that would be
administering this Rule and he is in
[Music]
favor it's a data dump for investors
today ahead of the Thanksgiving holiday
we've got us jobless claims GDP figures
and most crucial of all inflation
figures out later Carl Kens has more
investors are going to be homing in on
that inflation data for clues about a
potential fed interest rate cut next
month right now investors are betting on
a 25 basis point cut in December but
officials were divided on further rate
reductions at their meeting earlier this
month so that inflation data is going to
be key and you know what Tara what's
that comml it ties in nicely with this
week's eccon World podcast which is out
later today it's all about inflation I'm
talking to Rick reer he's the guy in
charge of black Rock's Bond business and
I'm talking to him all about inflation
and the outlook for it as we head into a
trump presidency you can catch that on
the Reuters app reuters.com or wherever
you listen to your
[Music]
podcasts that's it for today's show
we're off on Thursday for those of you
who are celebrating Happy Thanksgiving
for today's recommended read check out
our story on the shared air smog problem
in India and Pakistan but the city of
laor has its worst air pollution in 5
years there's a link in the pop
description for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app to never miss an
episode follow on your favorite podcast
player we'll be back on Friday with our
daily headline show
