Germany is holding snap elections
Europe's largest economy was once the
Envy of the world now it's
stagnating and that combined with
tensions over immigration a complicated
history with Russia and the rise of a
farri party has set the scene for a bit
of a
[Music]
nailbiter on this weekend's episode of
rers world news what is ailing Germany
and will the firewalls set in place
after World War II to prevent political
extremism fail I'm your host Jonah
[Music]
green every political system seems a bit
weird from the outside doesn't
it in the US we have a two- party system
simple enough we are bitterly divided
and it can sometimes feel like what team
we root for forms every aspect of our
personality and our
community and while the results of our
presidential contests are a little less
predictable these days at least our
calendar is set in stone but not so in
Europe European countries have a habit
of calling snap election
forming and dissolving coalitions in a
way that I personally find
baffling and Germany is a good example
in case you have not been following
German politics very closely let's
quickly get you up to
[Music]
speed in November Chancellor Olaf
Schultz was trying to get his budget
passed but a disagreement with his
Finance Minister largely over Aid to
Ukraine helped collapse the government
and that is why we now have snap
elections on February
23rd poll show Schultz's party the
center-left social Democrats are in
third place behind a far-right party
known as alternative for Germany or the
afd the front runner is the center-right
Christian democrats aka the party of
Angela
Merkel okay so now that we're all
oriented I'd like to bring in our
panelist for today's episode Maria
Martinez covers the German economy
Thomas ESRD covers politics and the far
right and reham aluza covers energy and
migration policy and they all join us
now from Berlin hello everybody hi thank
you Thomas we know Schultz's government
had been squabbling for months on a
range of issues before things snapped so
how did we get to this point the broader
context is that Germany is in something
of a transition from a period when it
was the Envy of the world and could do
no wrong and was economically successful
somewhat glibly we describ the models
that that that made it so successful
during the years of Chancellor Angela
Merkel of um plentiful gas plentiful
cheap energy from Russia and strong
demand for German products from China
and basically this allowed Germany to
effectively Coast on very very easily
with not having to worry very much about
investment not really having to worry
about anything because they were able to
make the goods that the world needed and
the world was desperate by them and all
of that was benevolently surveilled by a
very prot trade us-led liberal order
every single element of this from
China's hunger for German Imports to
plentiful Russian energy to the US's
commitment to an open liberal order
internationally is now in question and
Germany is perhaps the single country
that suffers from from from that the
most because it was the one the country
whose economy and its entire philosophy
was most committed to it and so you have
the kind of micro explanation which of
course is that the the Coalition
collapsed because they couldn't agree on
a budget but that just reflected a very
deep disagreements between the parties
on how on Earth we're going to reinvent
ourselves for the next era after all the
assumptions upon which we've been
functioning for the last 20 years have
collapsed I must just say on the energy
part because it is one of the main
reasons why the German economy is
struggling okay this cut from Russia
came at the same time while Germany's uh
is trying to become carbon neutral so
they got less gas from Russia they could
not burn more coal and at the same time
they had exited nuclear power because
the previous government had agreed that
they would exit Nuclear So it came
pounding all the same time so obviously
the economy and Ukraine are big issues
so is migration Americans remember that
Germany was in the spotlight back in
2015 and 2016 for its migration policy
when it opened its borders to more than
1 million migrants many from Syria but
there's been a more recent uptick too
right Germany took 2 million refugees
from Ukraine Syria Afghanistan turkey
from 2022 until today there are also 1.2
million Ukrainian refugees who came
legally to Germany plus
800,000 refugees from elsewhere who came
to apply for Asylum talking about 2
million refugees that they had to find
housing for they had to find schools for
K Garden places integration courses and
that came 20122 while the economy is
facing a huge crisis the cost exploded
this issue of migration came at the same
time while there was a series of attacks
by forigners and or Asylum seekers in
Germany which got a lot of reaction from
German public and media and politician
that Germany has lost control over the
issue has lost control of who is getting
into the country and who is not being
able to be deported M and that trans
surge the popularity of the farri afd
party in Germany so migration and the
sagging economy has given rise to this
far-right party alternative for Germany
or afd what what do we need to know
about them so this is interesting I mean
the afd is a is a curious party it
started a decade ago it has a very
typical trajectory of these uh anti-stem
farri right parties it started off as a
kind of libertarian party which said you
know it affected to be about having
reservations about European economic
policy and what was curious about this
is that as time passed um it evolved
into into into a classic
anti-immigration nativist party very
doesn't like Muslims doesn't like
immigrants especially if they don't look
the same as Germans the afd denies all
of that say it's definitely not a far
right party and that the criticisms made
of it are part of a plot by
establishment parties and the security
operators to to discredit it they even
say that they're not opposed to
immigration that they just want it to be
managed in a particular way and for
there to be tight limits on it in a lot
of its most prominent figures are quite
closely profess deep admiration for for
either for Trump or for figures around
him and they're very good at capturing
the discourse and and reshaping the the
election to reflect their own themes so
so for example we had the the main
Challenger uh the person who is expected
to win the election the Christian
democrats who is led by fi mats they
wanted to run a campaign focusing on the
economy basically saying that the
current Chancellor Olaf Schultz has lost
it he can't run the economy we need to
switch to the conservatives fried matz
who used to be a lobbyist for various
financial services companies in
particular for Black Rock and that was
the original focus of their campaign the
CDU Christian democrats wanted to run a
campaign focusing on economics and on
his economic press but partly because of
several very high-profile and nasty
terrorist attacks which were immediately
seized upon by the afd as evidence of
what reham said of Germany losing
control of the situation the afd were
able to refocus the campaign entirely on
on on their own home territory and so so
now the campaign is in a slightly
awkward position where everyone is
competing to make very tough sounding
noises about immigration yeah and um
many experts have been saying that this
discourse from the afd is Shifting the
whole discourse for all parties towards
the right so what was the conservatives
and the conservatives under former
Chancellor Angela Merkel was more in the
middle now it's going to the right while
BD is going more even to more to the
right so the whole discourse is turning
to the right I found this interesting
study by the kill Institute that says
that inflation and weak economic growth
boost the electoral performance of these
populist parties MH and I think that we
shouldn't forget the role that inflation
played in many elections last year not
only in the US but also in the UK in
France in Argentina in the Netherlands
we have seen how they have changed
governments with this Global inflation
Spike that we had yeah that's right yeah
I mean this is what happened in the US
you know we had a a rightward shift
across the board among many Democrat
Graphics a lot of that was due to
inflation part of it was also migration
so the messaging is very similar but
Germany has a unique history and until
recently the Assumption was that after
World War II Germany was kind of
inoculated against the rise of any new
far-right movement but now the afd is
surging is there a concern that this is
a Resurgence of Nazism I think it's a
very valid question Maria and I were
watching the first debate between the
chancellor Ola Schultz and his main
Challenger fuus Mur and one of the
curious things actually was that the afd
was not there because all the mainstream
parties of join forces say they will
never work with the afd the afd is
beyond the pale there is a so-called
firewall to keep the afd out of out of
legislative Authority out of government
and what was curious about it was of
course even though the leader of the afd
Alice vital was not there the party was
present throughout the debate it ran
like a golden thread throughout the
debate and and one of the main themes
was the two men Schultz and and matz
blaming each other for the party's rise
matz was arguing that Schultz's economic
dilettantism had fueled the far rights
rise as as as Maria was describing the
inflation which of course Matt blamed on
Schultz personally whereas Schultz
blamed mats for his flirting with
anti-immigration rhetoric for for
strengthening the far right so it was
very clear that both of them were very
keen not to be seen as deed for blame
for this situation so to that extent I I
think it it fear of the far right still
has a salience in Germany that it
doesn't have I think in most other
countries people are regularly looking
for parallels to what happened the 1930
saying Are We There Yet it's like a
perennial topic of conversation in
German political circles asking who is
the person we have to look out for who
are who are the dangers that said the
firewall is under strain in parts of the
country the party is actually the
largest in the polls overall it's
running second in the polls behind the
CDU behind the Christian democrats it
has to be said a fairly dist second for
now but that could change the polls are
very volatile and I do think I mean in
Germany there is a there is a singular
horror about the history people have
taught it in schools and it has to be
said that if the afd is on 20% there are
awful lot of people in this country who
really hate them as well so it's
tempting to go straight for the
historical analogies and it's
understandable but I think we have to be
careful with them yeah but at the same
time there were things that it makes it
even more difficult not to think about
those historical parallel for instance
Alis Vel who's like the chancellor
candidate for the afd now the afd
supporters in the afd now election
campaign election events they are
chanting Alice with an I like her name
for deuts land which is really close to
a band Nazi slogan which says Alice for
Dand which means everything is for
Germany it's a band Nazi uh slogan so it
is a bit difficult not to see the palace
and not to see that the supporters of
the afd are kind of testing the waters
of what could be acceptable what is not
still not acceptable to be said U
bringing that parallel from Germany's
history so this is a great example of
the way the party operates with
transgressions which appear to be
deliberate but which can also be denied
so a regional party leader BJ hooker
he's regarded as being the most radical
figure in in the afd and he said that
slogan Alis fan everything for Germany
and was prosecuted for it the reason he
was prosecuted was because the use of
Nazi slogans and symbols in Germany is
is is illegal but he despite himself
being a history teacher denied that he
had realized that the slogan he was
using had this Nazi connotation he
simply said that he had merely been
declaring that everything that he would
do everything for Germany so yes always
operating on the on the board between
transgression and deniability it
certainly recalls other recent events I
it was very striking when uh the
businessman Elon Musk made an unusual
gesture at a rally after Donald Trump's
victory in the elections and it was
interpreted by many as a Nazi gesture
but of course he says it wasn't and
likewise the afd as a party has
consistently denied that their platform
is aligned with Nazi
ideology as for musk he's a bigor of the
afd so talk to me about the musk Factor
how relevant is he is he is he moving
the needle he's not a popular figure
here I I think it makes a difference in
the sense that it shows that the party's
isolation is being gradually eroded so
um there was a time when International
figures would have been very cautious
about expressing support for the afd
because they would have thought the
risks were too great that it would cost
them their relationships with the
important people that is to say the
people who will be running Germany but I
think with Trump's Victory with musk's
endorsement that calculus has slightly
[Music]
shifted both leaders Schultz and Merz
just this past week reaffirmed their
commitment to not work with the afd but
Merz did depend on afd support for an
immigration deal Schultz criticized him
for this and Merz said that he would put
up resolutions no matter who supported
them but that his party would still not
form a coalition with or negotiate with
the afd however the leader of the afd's
response was quote the firewall has
fallen so how strong is Germany's
firewall against political extremism
that was a genuine Watershed in in
postwar German history because while
mats did not seek the support of the afd
he allowed a situation to occur in
Parliament where for the first time ever
a motion a parliamentary motion passed
specifically thanks to the votes of the
afd so it had to say the afd it was the
afd's decision that made it pass they
were the difference between it happening
or not happening and that was a first in
postwar German history and that has
triggered quite a lot of anger so you
have there have been protests around the
country the last few days and he's been
compared just outside my house actually
there's a there's a poster of fre matz
and someone has d ored the name of a
notorious figure from J's 1930s over his
face they have put they put the name
France Fon papen over over his face
France F papen was the the interwar
conservative politician who decided to
bring Hitler into government in the
belief that Hitler would was a clown who
would discredit himself once in power
and that in any case the professionals
the serious conservative professional
politicians would be able to control him
and and so that comparison I think it's
pretty obvious is not fair in any way
and I'm not endorsing it however it's
interesting that the level of anger it's
triggered among some people is is is
very intense and people are on on the
lookout for it you mentioned the
economic situation had boosted the
prospects of extremes on both ends what
do we know about the far-left in the
country what's interesting there is a
strong pro-russian faction on the
extremes of German Politics the afd for
example opposes supporting Ukraine and
so does a small leftist party left
authoritarian party uh called The Sarah
vagen conect Alliance and it's named
after the woman who founded it and they
share they of course say that they are
advocating peace but what does that mean
in practice what that means in practice
is they think Germany should not be
sending weapons to Ukraine one risk that
we have now is that in a very fragmented
Parliament many reforms and when we're
talking about these structural reforms
for the economy you need a two3 majority
if this small par is made it into the
government into the parliament it would
be very difficult to get the needed
majorities for these structural reforms
so it's an scenario that is not very
likely but also we cannot rule it out as
we talk about coalitions and governments
forming and collapsing can you just
explain for our American listeners who
might still be a bit confused how German
governments come into being whoever can
command a majority in Parliament gets to
form a government it's almost impossible
in under the German electoral system for
a single party to get the outright
majority of votes in Parliament and even
then as Maria says some laws need more
than just a majority they need 2third in
in in in Parliament and a majority in
the upper house as well and so that
means that to govern Germany effectively
you need to have alliances of parties so
the people who argue in favor of this
says that it does create a very
consensual Society because as a
politician you are slightly Limited in
in what you can say because you never
know if you're not going to have to
govern with this person however it can
lead to indecision and paralysis and
failure to to to do things that are
necessary so what are the implications
of this election Beyond Germany Germany
is after the US the second largest
supplier of support money and weapons to
Ukraine I think that's the most direct
consequence all the main parties do
agree on the need to continue supporting
Ukraine but as Maria says if the far
right and farle parties that are are
more pro- Russian manage between them to
get a third of the votes a third of the
seats in Parliament giving them power to
block things then that could have very
serious consequences I think for
Germany's support for Ukraine and
Germany is Europe's biggest economy if
Germany is struggling this has
consequences for all the economies it is
all interconnected and I think we also
have to take into consideration that if
you are not performing economically you
are politically irrelevant and we will
need an strong Europe with a strong
Germany if we have the risk of TS and
other trade conflicts coming from the US
the same goes to migration like when
we're if Germany starts pushing people
on the border which is one of the
promises for the conservatives that they
would enable such push backs for uh
refugees all other European countries
will take the lead will be kind of a
domino effect on migration for Asylum
Seekers that other countries would
naturally fall into the same direction
so it plays a big role on that point as
well
[Music]
and just one note we recorded this
conversation a day before an Afghan
Asylum Seeker drove a car into a crowd
in Munich injuring at least 30 people
and once again refocusing the campaign
on migration issues also shortly before
publication US vice president JD Vance
met with Alice vital the leader of the
afd while on a visit to Germany we'll
have the latest coverage of this
election as German head to the polls on
February
23rd thanks again to reham Thomas and
Maria for their time and expertise rers
R news produced by Gail Isa David
Spencer Christopher Wall Jasper Kim Vel
Sharon rice Garson and me Jonah green
our senior producers are Tara Oaks and
Carmel kmn our executive producer is
Leela dzer musical composition and sound
design by Josh
summer we'll be back on Monday with our
daily headline show to make sure you
never miss an episode click follow on
your favorite podcast platform or
download the reuter app
[Music]
