today Donald Trump has tapped Robert F
Kennedy Jr to run the Department of
Health and Human Services what might
Trump's appointments so far tell us
about the coming
Administration and as Internet star Jake
Paul squares up against boxing Legend
Mike Tyson Netflix hopes to cash
in it's Friday November 15th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Christopher wal Jesper in
Chicago today I nominated him for I
guess if you like health and if you like
people that live a long time it's the
most important position RFK Jr Bobby
Donald Trump has nominated Robert F
Kennedy Jr to lead the Department of
Health and Human Services
now Kennedy is a former Democrat and
independent presidential candidate and
has been criticized for his claims
around the risks and efficacy of
vaccines he's also come under Fire for
his stance on state and federal
lockdowns during the covid-19 pandemic
Kennedy disputes the antivaccine tag
saying he wants more rigorous testing of
vaccines instead as head of HHS Kennedy
would oversee the Food and Drug
Administration the Centers for Disease
Control and prevention and the National
Institutes of Health which have a budget
of around $3
trillion our reporter Stephanie Kelly
covered Kennedy on the campaign Trail
what do we know about how Kennedy might
approach this role so he has said he'll
try to address what he calls the chronic
disease epidemic which includes
conditions like obesity diabetes autism
he also has really emphasized that he
would want to reduce chemicals in food
and food toxins are a major issue in the
US he has also stated that he would gut
the Food and Drug Administration and he
would replace hundreds of employees at
the National Institutes of Health will
he get through confirmation hearings I
think that a lot of people did not take
his campaign as seriously you had the
stories about how he had a a brainworm a
decade ago and he's now since recovered
he said he also had a sexual assault
allegation come to light and when he
commented on that he said that he had so
many skeletons in my closet and that's
that's a quote and I do wonder how that
might play into some questions that he
gets asked during his
[Music]
hearing the news of RFK Jr's appointment
is playing into markets across the pond
shares in European vaccine makers fell
in early trading Friday Britain's GSK
and Fran's sopi were both lower by more
than 3% and astrazenica was down 2% and
if you want more markets and finance
check out Reuters econ World our weekly
podcast looking at the economic ideas
driving the news this week is all about
climate change and happiness you can
catch it on the Reuters app or wherever
you get
[Music]
podcasts Trump's announced a flurry of
cabinet picks this week and some like
Matt gates for attorney general or Pete
Heth for Secretary of Defense are
getting more push back than others but
we wanted to step back a moment what is
it that all of these appointments have
in common James olant covered Trump's
campaign and is now reporting on the
transition there is a commonality these
are people who have been on stage with
Trump they've been at Mar Lago they've
been on Fox News and other conservative
media and he has a level of trump TR
with them that he may have lacked with
some of his appointees back in
2016 when he was relying on on the
Judgment of other people frankly for
some of these jobs I mean this time
around it really feels like Trump is in
charge and he is picking the kind of
people for better or worse that he wants
in these jobs who will carry out his
policy priorities and will not have
their own agendas Trump wants people who
he doesn't feel like will undermine him
and he wants people who will defend him
on television and one thing that just
about all of these pcks have is they're
going on TV they're experienced at
defending Trump and his policies and I
Trump believes in the power of the
medium and he has set his cabinet up
almost to be like a collection of of
Talking Heads a collection of
pundits Matt Gates's confirmation is
coming under increasing scrutiny with a
top Republican lawmaker saying he wants
to review an unreleased ethics report on
Gates Senator John Corin who holds a top
spot on the committee that will consider
Gates's nomination next year says he and
other lawmakers should get access to the
report by the House of Representatives
Ethics Committee the committee looked
into allegations of sexual misconduct
and illicit drug use against Gates he
denies those
allegations in an echo of the Soviet era
Russians are informing on each other
over their views on the war in Ukraine
Russian Rights group ovd info has
recorded 21 criminal prosecutions in
politically motivated cases based on
denunciations since Russia's Invasion
Reuters was unable to independently
confirm those numbers Russia's Justice
Ministry did not respond to requests for
comment and Vladimir Putin's
spokesperson Dimitri pesov says the
Kremlin does not comment on court
rulings Sri Lankan president anura
Kamura dak's leftist Coalition has
landed a thumping victory in a snap
general election his Marxist leaning
National people's power has won a 2third
majority of the parliament seats that
were up for grabs that hands him the
power to push through his plans to fight
poverty in the island nation which is
recovering from a financial
meltdown the onion is buying infow War
the parody news site picked up
conspiracy theorist Alex Jones's website
at a bankruptcy auction Jones filed for
bankruptcy after courts ordered him to
pay $1.5 billion for defaming the
families of those killed in the Sandy
Hook school shooting us bankruptcy judge
Christopher Lopez said at a court
hearing that he had some concerns about
the transparency of the
auction I didn't even feel it
he's angry he's an angry little elf Mike
Tyson I thought that was a cute slap
buddy but tomorrow YouTube Star turned
boxer Jake Paul after Mike Tyson slapped
him at a weigh-in before tonight's
boxing showdown in Arlington Texas the
58-year-old grandfather and boxing
Legend had just two words for the
27-year-old influencer talking over
while roughly 80,000 people will watch
the match in person it's also being
streamed on netx where 280 million
subscribers can tune in our sports
reporter Rory Carroll is covering the
fight and all the buzz around it the
general public is fascinated by this
clearly everyone's talking about it
right now boxing is a long history
especially in the United States of rags
to Rich's story much like Mike Tyson did
to make it to the top of the sport back
in the late ' 80s early 90s or these
internet celebrities like Paul crashing
the the sport but he also loves to be in
the spotlight and he loves you know
making money so so it kind of it
definitely works for him for Mike he
stays relevant in the sport he's gets to
continue to push his brand with a
younger audience now these fights were
big money makers for pay-per-view how
does a service like Netflix uh cash in
this is about two things it's that
Global reach because it it's going to be
ailable around the world through a
streaming platform as opposed to the old
model and then you've got this
intergenerational thing going on where
they're hoping to track the the older
viewers who grew up with Mike Tyson and
then these younger viewers that know
Jake Paul through his social media and
now his foray into the boxing World okay
so who's favorite to win well right now
Jake Paul is the favorite it almost
seems weird to say that given that Mike
Tyson
was one of the most fearsome
heavyweights of all time but Jake Paul
has he's more than three decades his
Junior at 27 years old Mike on the other
hand this fight is was initially meant
to happen in July got pushed back
because he had an ulcer flare up so no
one's totally sure what to expect from
Mike Tyson he hasn't fought
professionally since 2005 but Jake Paul
is is the favorite
[Music]
and as you head into your weekend a
recommended listen for you tune in to
Reuters world news tomorrow for a
special episode on Iraq's missing
yazidis nearly 2600 yazidis are still
missing a decade after Islamic State
rampaged through their Iraqi Heartland
most are feared dead but hundreds could
still be alive if it'll be in your feed
Saturday morning and we'll be back on
Monday with our daily headline show for
more on any of the stories from today
check out reuters.com or the Reuters app
and to make sure you never miss an
episode follow us on your favorite
podcast player or download the Reuters
app
