today he's Time magazine's person of the
year again we look at Trump's plans for
a raft of executive actions on day one
what mysterious United Arab Emirates
planes landing in the Chad desert could
mean for the war in Sudan and the
Dilemma facing young Ukrainian men on
whether to stay or
go it's Friday December 13th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Christopher wal Jasper in Chicago
and I'm Tara Oaks in
[Music]
the USA chance of USA broke out on the
floor of the New York Stock Exchange on
Thursday as president-elect Donald Trump
rang the
bell Trump was there to commemorate
being elected as times person of the
year to say Time Magazine getting this
honor for the second time uh I think I
like it better this time actually the
issue features a wide- ranging interview
with Trump where he sharply criticizes
Ukraine's use of us supplied missiles
deep into Russian territory he said he
would discuss ending childhood
vaccination programs with Robert F
Kennedy Jr and vowed to enact a virtual
closure of the US Department of
Education
White House correspondent Steve Holland
has been speaking with those in Trump's
orbit to get a sense of what he might
try to tackle on day one what we're
hearing is that president-elect Donald
Trump wants to make a big splash on his
first day in office and he's planning a
blizzard of more than 25 executive
orders and directives as he seeks to
dramatically reshape US government
policy a lot of these orders will have
to do with immigration which he's very
committed to putting some stops on on
illegal migration across the southern
border so we're hearing that many of the
orders will have to do with that he also
wants to increase energy production he
sees increasing energy production as a
way of lowering prices bringing
inflation under control make it easier
to get permits for drilling and fracking
and all these ways of producing
[Music]
energy a trump inauguration invite is a
hot ticket and Chinese president XI Jin
ping has one experts say he's not likely
to attend calling the invitation to a
top us geopolitical rival diplomatic
theater President Joe Biden says he's
pardoning 39 people convicted of
nonviolent crimes and commuting the
sentences of nearly 1500 others who were
serving long prison terms the Pardons
and clemency come over a week after the
president signed an unconditional pardon
for his son
Hunter a senior judge has been
assassinated in the Mexican resort city
of Acapulco edmundo Roman pinzon was
gunned down on Wednesday afternoon in
his car according to images of the crime
scene shared in local media
reports South Korea's opposition leader
says the best way to restore order in
the country is to impeach the president
over his botched attempt at martial law
yukol faces a second impeachment vot on
Saturday after surviving last
weekends and a party gone royally wrong
Buckingham Palace says staff are facing
an investigation following an Afterparty
at a bar which British choid the sun
reported ended in a punch up and a bar
roll markets now and the rash of rate
Cuts over the past few days with
outsized 50 basis points move in
Switzerland and Canada and a 25 basis
points easing by the European Central
Bank has helped to turbocharge the US
dollar markets are still confident of a
cut by the Federal Reserve next week but
they' have all but given up on a move in
January which is priced at just a 20%
chance since the Civil War in Sudan
began in April of 20123 dozens of cargo
planes from the United Arab Emirates
have landed on a small airst strip in
neighboring Chad what those planes have
been doing out in the desert has become
something of a mystery one that our
visual investigation reporter Reed
levenson in London has been looking into
so the UAE says that they are helping
Sudanese refugees they say they have
delivered at least 10,000 tons of relief
supplies medical and food supplies to
Eastern Chad for Sudanese refugees us
British diplomats and un experts suspect
that those flights are not moving
humanitarian cargo but moving weapons
and arms to support the rsf in Sudan
okay so how did this little Landing
Strip raise people's suspicions the
airst strip is in the middle of the Chad
desert it's also many days journey from
where the refugee crisis is really
centered at the moment so people started
focusing on what are all these flights
doing and for this story We obtained
video that was taken on the ground at
Omas airport which has not been
previously reported and in this video
you can see two pallets on the tarmac
both with crates some of the crates have
UAE flags on them they're long and kind
of thin and we spoke to three different
weapons experts two of whom have worked
as un investigators they said that the
crates in the video appear to be metal
and they're stacked low on the pallets
and based on that that they are highly
probably ammunition or weapons how have
these shipments potentially impacted the
course of Sudan's Civil War the experts
we've spoken to said that the war would
not have continued with this intensity
that the rsf wouldn't have been able to
make the gains and do the attacks that
they have been doing especially recently
without help from foreign countries and
that includes the UAE now how have the
two sides in this conflict
responded so the rsf has denied
receiving any outside support they say
that they have used weapons and
ammunition produced at factories in
Sudan but the Sudanese Army said that
Emira arms to the rsf is a tangible fact
they said the flow of weapons and
equipment from the UAE in this way to
the rebel support militia has not
stopped since the outbreak of this war
in a statement sent to Reuters the UAE
denied supplying arms to the rsf via the
Chad air strip calling the claims
baseless and
unfounded Ukraine should consider
dropping the age of military service for
its soldiers from 25 to
18 that's according to senior us
Administration officials who say that
Kev isn't mobilizing or training enough
new soldiers to replace those lost on
the battlefield it speaks to an
agonizing decision facing Ukrainian Boys
in their late teens Stay or Leave before
they turn 18 that's when a ban on men
leaving the country takes hold Anastasia
maleno in Kiev has the story of two
young men who made very different
decisions Raman belet is a native of Kev
he was 15 years old when Russia's
fullscale Invasion
began he finished his uh high school
education here and then he got into a
Ukrainian University but then as his
18th birthday was nearing he was
agonizing over the decision of whether
to go or to stay and then he told me
that he made the decision to go when the
opportunity arose in February of
20124 and he lefted uh about a month
before his 18th birthday and now he's
studying in Slovakia and adjusting to
his life
there he's been only able to see his mom
and his sister two times since he left
and he has not been able to see his
father since his dad can't leave the
country because of the limits on men
leaving the country at the
moment our team also met another
Ukrainian man Andre KK he joined up with
Ukrainian military when he was 18 he's
currently 21 and he's serving with Hara
Brigade in the Infantry Fighting Vehicle
unit when I was talking to him about the
decision he recalled talking to his
friends who were also facing the same
decision and then at some point they
just went outside into the smoking area
and asked each other should we sign and
then all four of them ended up signing
and then he recalled the moment he had
to break the news to his mom when he
called her and asked for his passport
details to sign the contract with
Ukrainian military and she started
crying but he told her no and said that
he had to defend his homeland he
actually kept on friendly terms with a
classmate who went abroad after the full
scale Invasion broke
out he said that sometimes it did feel a
bit hurtful because he's been serving
for almost 3 years now and him and the
guys in his unit are really tired and
all need to be
[Music]
replaced today's recommended read is a
deep dive into how Bashar alassad Army
collapsed in Syria with testimony from
former soldiers on the poor morale and
low pay which led to desertions and
Military collapse there's a link to the
story in the Pod description for more on
any of our stories from today check out
reuters.com or the Reuters app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back on Monday
with our daily headline show
