today the LA Wildfire spreads pushing
more than a 100,000 people from their
homes a market selloff piles pressure on
Britain Lebanon heads to the polls
testing hezbollah's weakened influence
on the country's politics and in Mali a
fight over gold
profits it's Thursday January 9th this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Carmel crims in
Dublin raging wildfires surrounding Los
Angeles have spread to the Hollywood
Hills burning just above Hollywood
Boulevard and its Walk of Fame other
blazes in the area have killed at least
five people destroying hundreds of homes
including some celebrity mansions and
stretching five firefighting resources
and Water Supplies to the Limit more
than 100,000 people have been ordered to
evacuate and the fire continues to grow
with 0% containment LA County fire chief
Anthony describing the fires as a
widespread disaster no LA county and all
29 fire departments in our County are
not prepared for this type of widespread
disaster all day our crews have been out
filming the devastation and speaking
with residents like this man who asked
to be referred to only as Curtis this is
pretty devastating I don't think La has
seen anything like this before Curtis
had just returned to his mobile home
park in Pacific Palisades to find only
rubble and burnt out cars my heart goes
out I know five friends already that
have lost their homes our video
journalist George Garcia has been
covering the fires coming into the in
the fire zone it's like someone just you
know Dropped a Bomb
in in this portion of the city the
neighborhood is just everything's
flattened and the hazy sun and the smoke
plumes the orange it just looks very
apocalyptic taking that Coastal drive it
was just shocking it was really honestly
it was shocking to see how the uh
Palisades fire just kind of flatlined
one of our iconic sceneries and today
structure after structure just
completely turned to to Ashes to Rubble
[Music]
[Applause]
turmoil on UK Bond markets is heaping
pressure on finance minister Rachel
Reeves the selloff is spooking investors
who remember the market meltdown in 2022
that forced out former prime minister
Liz truss William shamberg is reuter's
Chief economics
correspondent William British government
debt yields have spiked 20 basis points
this week to their highest since 2008
what's going on investors are worried
about high borrowing in the UK uh
inflation hasn't gone down as much as
people initially hoped also there's the
impact of the policies of
president-elect Donald Trump in the
United States he wants to do things that
investors think will put up inflation in
the in the US and that has a KnockOn
effect in the UK as well so combination
of lots of things what can Rachel Reeds
do about it well Rachel re is in a
pretty difficult situation in October
she came out with her first budget that
didn't give her much wiggle room for
meeting her fiscal targets and what's
happened in financial markets and in the
economy which is slow down means she's
pretty much off Target already to meet
that so to get back on target she faces
two possibilities one is to raise taxes
but she said she doesn't want to do that
and the other is to cut spending which
is looking like the most likely option
at the moment but that comes with a cost
voters are pretty tired of austerity and
could be a lot of opposition within the
government cabinet to further spending
cuts
[Music]
Mexican president Claudia Shin Bal
suggesting North America be renamed
Mexican America pointing to a giant map
from 1607 behind her that used the
historic label her comments come on the
heels of President elect Donald Trump
saying he wanted to rename the Gulf of
Mexico the Gulf of America
former President Jimmy Carter is honored
with a state funeral in Washington DC
today before his body is returned to
Georgia for burial President Joe Biden
will deliver the eulogy and President
elect Donald Trump will
attend authorities in Tibet have wound
down the search and rescue operation for
survivors after Tuesday's 6.8 magnitude
earthquake near Mount Everest more than
45,000 people have been moved to
shelters and the number of missing is
still unknown
[Music]
lebanon's been without a president since
2022 but today it'll try again to elect
a leader after several failed attempts
it's a test of Hezbollah the iran-backed
Shiite political party and paramilitary
group and its hold on domestic politics
teor aari is here to explain what's at
stake in today's election so the leading
candidate is Army Commander Joseph Al
he's a longtime partner of the Us and
other European and Arab countries he's
currently overseeing the ceasefire
between Lebanon and Israel he's seen as
a sort of uncompromising figure in
Lebanon someone who has a military logic
someone who has maintained the unity of
the army and so he is not your average
Lebanese politician if aun is elected
what would that mean for politics in
Lebanon a is not hb's favored candidate
but they did recently say they're not
going to veto him the balance of power
has shifted in the region I'm speaking
to you from the dcus after the fall of
Bashar alassad who was a key Ally of
Hezbollah we are speaking after hasbalah
got battered in a war with Israel and
Iran's entire access is weakened
Hezbollah needs to reconstruct in
Lebanon its Community was hit hard
thousands of buildings destroyed
thousands of people killed to do that
they need International consensus they
need support from outside and at this
point the International Community is
standing behind Joseph H that's why they
might show some compromise here so how
could this election impact the ceasefire
with Israel what the ceasefire calls for
is for military infrastructure in the
area to be dismantled so that Lebanese
security forces are the only forces
there if Joseph H becomes president and
he is the Army Commander that means that
it might give extra wind in the sales of
the Lebanese Army doing that and having
a sustainable long-lasting Seas
Fund in Mali a standoff between a
Canadian mining company and the military
government is escalating as the price of
gold has surged in recent months Mali
and other West African nations have been
applying pressure to mining companies
seeking a bigger share of their revenues
Mali has restricted gold shipments from
bar mines and barck now says it'll
suspend mining operations there unless
those restrictions are
lifted but as David Lewis reports from
Nairobi the relationship between Mali
and barck could be hard to disentangle
well even for a company as big as barck
its operations in are hugely important
the lulo guno mine in Western Mali
that's at the center of the talks with
the government accounts for around 14%
of its estimated Global gold output but
the operation is also hugely important
for Mali as well barck employs around
8,000 people in the country nearly all
of whom are malians over the years the
company claims to have contributed over
9 billion dollars to the Malian economy
an investor as big as this is critical
for an economy like maly's which has
struggled during years of war against uh
islamist militants and sanctions imposed
on the country since a 2020 coup Mali
has issued an arrest warrant for
Barrack's CEO Mark Bristo so relations
have really deteriorated yes the arrest
warrant against bar CEO Mark Bristo is
Extreme but the Jun has already detained
Malian Executives working for barck in
the country and they've also detained as
the foreign CEO of another mining
company while he was visiting but more
broadly it's part of a trend in the
region which includes bukina Faso and
nier which are also run by military
governments to try to get more for the
minerals that are dug up from these
countries as the prices of in particular
gold and uranium are high what's m
saying about Barrack's pledge to cease
operations Mari is maintaining that this
is a process that's just aimed at
leveling the playing field making sure
that the government gets its own fair
share from its own resources and amalian
government source that we've spoken to
on background did say basically that the
mining code seeks to address the
inequalities without killing the
industry for its part barck submitted an
arbitration request to try and settle
the dispute but sources say that there
are talks going on behind the scenes as
both the company and the government do
want to try and find a solution and if
you're interested in gold and its
surging price on financial markets check
out this week's episode of reuter's econ
world it's all about the precious metal
and it's available on the Reuters app or
wherever you get your
[Music]
podcasts and for today's recommended
read everyone's been talking about
Greenland so we're pointing you to a
beautiful set of photos of the Arctic
Island that's dominated this week's
headlines there's a link in the Pod
description for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app don't forget to
follow us on your favorite podcast
player we'll be back tomorrow with our
daily headline show
