today Jimmy Carter has died aged 100
South Korea is left reeling after its
deadliest air disaster and Europe braces
for the end of a Transit deal which
pumps Russian gas via
Ukraine it's Monday December 30th this
is Ro's world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tara Oaks in Liverpool and I'm
Carmel crims in
Dublin this is my vision of America I
hope you share it and I hope you will
help me fight for it former US President
Jimmy Carter has died at his home in
Plains Georgia aged 100 during his time
in office the earnest Georgia peanut
farmer struggled with a bad economy and
the Iran hostage crime crisis but broken
peace between Israel and Egypt and later
received the Nobel Peace Prize President
Joe Biden paying tribute to him we may
never see his like again we'd all do
well to try be a little more like Jimmy
Carter Biden has directed that January
9th will be a national day of mourning
throughout the United States his
one-term presidency was marked by the
highest of the Camp David Accords
between Israel and Egypt bringing some
stability to the Middle East so let us
now lay aside
War let us now reward all the children
of Abraham who hunger for a
comprehensive peace in the Middle
East Carter ran for reelection in 1980
but was swept from office in a landslide
as voters embraced Republican Challenger
Ronald Reagan the former actor and
California governor world leaders and
former US presidents of PID tribute to a
man they praised as compassionate humble
and committed to peace in the Middle
East Egyptian president abdal fat aisi
said in a post on X that Carter's
significant role in achieving the peace
agreement between Egypt and Israel will
remain etched in the annals of
history but it wasn't just world leaders
18-year-old Chase Howard came to lay
flowers at the Carter Center in Atlanta
after news of his death he understood
that outside of politics outside of
policy there's a person on the other
side and if we can appeal to that person
we can get things done and we can create
a better future for more on Jimmy Carter
and pictures from his long life visit
reuters.com or the Reuters
[Music]
app monks in South Korea pay their
respects to the victims of Sunday's
plane crash the country in morning after
its worst ever air disaster all but two
of the 108 81 occupants of a Boeing 737
killed after it belly landed onto the
runway at muan International Airport
skidding into a wall and exploding into
a ball of fire two flight attendants
survived jum Min Park is at muan airport
in the south of the country we know only
there was a bird strike we don't know
how damaging the bird strike was to to
the engine or to the plane from the
video uh we know the plane didn't have a
landing gear and um you know authorities
are trembling to find out what really
caused the accident and why the pilot
couldn't launch any kind of braking
systems they are got hold of the initial
Communications between control tower and
the pilot they still want to analyze
more on the voice recorders and more
records left in the you know in the the
plane system so that could take months
to get a clear answer and you're at the
airport what's happening there this
airport is filled with so much emotions
of bereaved uh families still waiting
for their loved ones bodies to come come
home or come back and they're just
they've been here for now more than 24
hours camping out you can hear wailing
crying sometimes they collapse or they
they hugged each other in tears whenever
they hear some you know really tragic
news of their loved ones who died on
this plane
crash A's president ilham Alf calling
for Russia to apologize and admit
responsibility over a plane crash on
Christmas Day the killed 38
people he says the plane was damaged by
an accidental shooting from the ground
in Russia Russian President Vladimir
Putin apologized on Saturday but the
Kremlin has not admitted
responsibility only saying that a
criminal case has been
opened across the Northwestern border
from aaban in Georgia the new president
has been sworn in
kavash that the inauguration of mik
kavalas has been greeted with anger from
the opposition and on the streets of a
Capal to
B kaval asash is a Hardline critic of
the West and is swearing in comes amid a
political crisis after the government
froze European Union application
talks the head of the World Health
Organization has called for an end to
Israel's attacks on hospitals in Gaza
the Israeli military says Hamas
militants were the targets of a strike
on Gaza City's alwafa Hospital on Sunday
while more than 240 Palestinians were
detained after a raid on the Kamal adwan
Hospital on
[Music]
Friday stocks tend to do well in the
last five trading days of December and
into the first two days of January it's
a phenomenon known as the Santa Claus
rally but Asian stocks fell and us and
European Equity Futures are edging lower
as investors take profits heading into
the year end Japan's Nicki dropped on
its last trading day of 2024 it won't
reopen again until January 6th but the
Nicki is up nearly 20% for the year and
it's been a great year too for US Stocks
just how long that upward momentum lasts
is anybody's guess the market strength
will be tested when us companies start
reporting fourth quarter earnings and
the transition of power in Washington
and what that brings will be watched
closely I look at what that transition
of power could mean for the
transatlantic economy in my latest econ
World podcast you can find it on the
Reuters app or wherever you listen to
your
[Music]
podcasts authorities in moldova's
separatist transnistria region have cut
off gas supplies to several State
institutions bracing for severe power
cuts as a deal allowing Russian gas to
Transit through Ukraine comes to an end
at the close of the Year Ukraine has
refused to extend the deal in Wartime
Rachel Armstrong our Europe editor is
here to explain so Rachel Ukraine has
let this gas Transit via Ukraine during
the whole War up to this point why don't
they want to renew the deal it's been a
curious phenomenon of this brutal war
that while this battle rages between
Russia and Ukraine Russian gas has
flowed continuously through Ukrainian
pipes and into Europe Ukraine was
willing to keep this Arrangement going
for a few reasons first of all it did
not want to annoy European allies who
were reliant on Russian gas and had
contractual Arrangements in place to
receive it Ukraine also received money
for all of this gas coming through its
pipes between 800 million and a billion
euros every year however nearly 3 years
into the war and with a contract now due
to expire many politicians and officials
in Ukraine think Russia gets a lot more
out of this deal than Ukraine does
gazprom Russia State energy giant earns
around5 billion euros a year from it and
that's money that Ukraine says is going
to fund Russia's War efforts these
European allies how significant is
ending the gas Transit deal for European
countries and what sort of measures have
some of them been taken to mitigate
these effects the vast majority of
European countries have weaned
themselves of Russian gas most notably
Germany however there is still a pocket
of Eastern European countries that have
used a lot of gas piped from Russia
since the War Began it's Slovakia which
is still particularly dependent on
Russian gas Slovakian Prim Robert ficho
went to Moscow in recent days to see if
he could come up with a workaround
because they seem to be the most exposed
and Ukraine for itself has said it's
been working on compensation
arrangements for Slovakia Slovakia says
that that came with conditions they
weren't willing to
[Music]
accept our recommended read today is all
about how there's been a rush of young
people taking the civil service exams in
China more than 3 million have been
lured by the prospect of Lifetime job
security and staff Perks at a time of
high youth unemployment there's a link
to the story in today's po description
for more on any of the stories from
today check out reuters.com or the
Reuters app don't forget to follow us on
your favorite podcast player we'll be
back tomorrow with our daily headline
show
