today Donald Trump will be sworn in for
his second term at a critical juncture
for the world in Gaza Israeli hostages
are beginning to return to their
families while gazans attempt to return
to whatever homes they have left and Tik
Tok reboots in the US after Trump
promises to stall the
ban it's Monday January 20th this is
reuter's world news bringing you every
you need to know from the front lines in
10 minutes every weekday I'm Torah Oaks
in
Lial Donald Trump will be sworn in as US
president today a triumphant political
comeback with promises to secure
retribution against his political
enemies and transform the role of the US
on the world
stage on the eve of his auration Trump
bathed in red and blue lights reinforced
his ambitious plans for his first day to
Roars of approval from thousands of
supporters I will act with historic
speed and strength and fix every single
crisis facing our country we have to do
it he mentioned several campaign
promises from immigration crackdowns to
removing diversity equity and inclusion
from the military and promised to
release classified documents surrounding
the assassinations of JFK and Martin
Luther King
Jr Tim Reed was at the DC rally and
spoke to fans outside the arena the
queue must be at least a mile long to
try and get a seat it's an arena that
only holds 20,000 people and it's also
the arena where Trump's post inaugural
parade is going to be held because the
events have been moved indoors it's a
cold and rainy day here but as I've seen
many times before in the last two years
Trump's supporters are never diminished
by the weather when they want to see
their hero supporters like Bal Togan and
Michelle mcgibbon from Denver Colorado
who plan to stand in line all night for
a chance to make it into the festivities
today so you're going to camp out you
know how cold it's going to be I know
and we also found out that you can't
bring anything with you cuz they won't
let you in so you literally just have
your coat and your clothes on and you
just sit on the street the traditional
parade down Pennsylvania Avenue past the
White House will now take place in doors
at the Capital One Arena the swearing in
itself will take place at noon local and
was moved indoors for the first time in
40 years due to the extreme cold Trump
has promised a flurry of executive
orders on day one and you can hear more
about his immediate plans in our weekend
special episode there's a link in the
Pod description but the rally was also a
chance for him to celebrate what he sees
as early victories perhaps most
beautiful of all this week we achieved
an epic ceasefire agreement as a first
step toward lasting peace in the Middle
East and this agreement could only have
happened as a result of our historic
victory in November Trump like his
predecessor President Joe Biden claiming
credit as a long awaited Gaza ceasefire
takes hold but I'm glad to report that
the first hostages have just been
released the three female hostages have
been reunited with their
families and have been identified as
Romy gonan Doren Stein Breer and Emily
deari we caught up with our Israel and
Palestinian territories bureau chief
James McKenzie after they were released
it's classic sort of mixed emotion I
think you know everyone's of course
really thrilled to see these three uh
young women come back there is some
disagreement about the broader hostage
deal itself the national security
minister itamar benav one of the big
hardliners in the government resigned
over the deal a lot of people think that
it leaves the remaining 64 hostages who
aren't included in the first batch they
don't think that the seeds fire will
hold and they don't think those people
will come back then there are others who
oppose the deal because it does leave
Hamas sort of still standing in Gaza
severely weakened of course but as we
saw there was quite a show of strength
from Hamas on the ground in in Gaza this
morning men armed police on the streets
police directing traffic that kind of
thing and in the West Bank thousands
turned out to welcome freed Palestinian
prisoners and we saw displaced Garin
taking their belongings and returning to
their homes or what left of them it's
going to be one of the major challenges
in in the weeks months ahead how to
rehouse this population almost all of
Gaza has been displaced you know huge
sades of the territory completely
destroyed they people are going to have
to have somewhere to live and that's
just a tremendous problem that the world
Community is going to have to Grapple
with in some
way the ceasefire deal wasn't the only
thing Trump and his supporters
celebrated at the pre-inauguration rally
and as of today ticktock is
back he told the crowd he had to save
the B and the United States will do what
we call a joint
venture and there's no risk we're not
putting up any money over Trump says
he'll extend the period of time before
the ban takes effect and he'd like the
United States to have a 50% ownership
position in that joint venture Tik Tok
told users in a welcome back message as
a result of president Trump's efforts
Tik Tok is back in the US David
shepardson has been covering the Tik Tok
ban and all the back and forth late on
Saturday night before the deadline
kicked in the app disappeared from
Google and Apple's app stores so what
Tik Tok said in the runup to that was
they needed a definitive affirmative
statement that the law would not be
enforced in order for it to stay up but
what's clear is the statement that
President elect Trump put out that said
companies would not face any enforcement
actions for what they did before he took
office and after was enough protection
for companies to allow Tik Tok to go
back online so it's back for now Al be
it with some performance issues but what
happens next this really is setting up a
real challenge right because this law is
very clear it says Tik Tok is banned
unless B sold the app by January 19th
and it gave the president and there's a
debate whether President elect Trump can
do it past the 19th a one-time 90-day
extension of that deadline if he can
certify to Congress that they have
binding agreements in place to complete
a sale and a full divesture within 90
days now so far there's no evidence of
that and we just don't know enough about
what's going behind the scenes but a lot
of lawmakers have said unless they meet
that very high burden they should should
not be allowed to be turned back on and
president Trump should not give the okay
and we've heard that Tik Tok CEO shuy
Chu plans to attend the presidential
inauguration but what happens
politically after today so I think if
Tik Tok comes back on fully I think
rightfully president Trump can take
credit because I think it without his
robust support it's hard to imagine this
happening but it's definitely a very you
know we're definitely seeing a very big
point of dissension between
traditional conservative Republicans who
are very hawkish on China and people who
say well he's the dealmaker he can get
this
done and as well as everything else
Trump is casting a long Shadow over
markets he and his wife Melania have
each launched new cryptocurrencies ahead
of his return to the White House KL
gmans is here with more that's right
Trump's digital coin is soaring it's
topped 11 billion in market value after
launching on Friday and features an
image of him from his assassination
attempt back in July milania Trump
launched her own coin on Sunday its
market cap is just shy of $2 billion the
moves actually caught the crypto World
by surprise and some people in that
Community are worried it's going to
undercut efforts for crypto to be taken
seriously meme coins like these
initially started out as an industry
Insider joke they typically don't have
any business model or cash flows and
they're there are plenty of joke tokens
out there now if traditional coins are
more your thing I'm thinking gold coins
specifically do check out the latest
episode of my podcast reuter's econ
world it's all about gold and why it's
soaring right
[Music]
now Costco Teamsters have overwhelmingly
voted in favor of a us-wide strike
they're entering their final round of
talks to reach a new contract ahead of a
January 31st deadline the union
represents more than 18,000 Costco
workers in Colombia at least 80 people
have been killed and thousands displaced
after talks between the government and
the National Liberation Army or eln
guerillas collapsed the defense minister
accusing them of targeting Community
leaders and former members of the far
Rebels the eln says that the demobilized
farc rebels have returned to Arms
and for today's recommended read how
some La fire victims are saying they
won't try to rebuild faced with
challenges including toxic Ash and
soaring construction costs there's a
link to the story in today's pod
description for more on any of the
stories from today check out rs.com and
the roers app don't forget to follow us
on your favorite podcast player and
we'll be back tomorrow with our daily
headline show
