today what we know so far about the
aaban plane that crashed in Kazakhstan
our mother is still waiting for answers
20 years after the deadly Indian Ocean
tsunami and how Al is tackling
homelessness it's Friday December 27th
this is reuter's world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Torah Oaks in
[Music]
Liverpool Russian air defenses downed an
aaban Airlines plane that crashed in
Kazakhstan killing 38 people that's
according to four sources with knowledge
of the preliminary findings of aayan's
Investigation into the disaster our
Europe editor Rachel Armstrong has the
latest an aaban Airlines flight was
carrying 7 passengers on December the
25th from the aabani capital Baku to gry
in Russia now as it neared the Southwest
Russian region of chcha flight tracking
data shows its navigation system was
jammed and that it abruptly diverted
flew hundreds of miles the wrong way
cross the Caspian Sea and then crash
near the kazak city of akow Russian
Aviation Watchdog said in the immediate
aftermath that it may have been caused
by the plane striking a flock of Birds a
theory which several Aviation experts
publicly said was highly unlikely since
then four sources and aaban have told
writers that they believe Russian air
defenses hit the plane one of the
sources said the plane was struck by a
Russian paner s air defense system and
that its Communications were also
Paralyzed by electronic warfare systems
on the approach into gry now we know
that the area where the plane was flying
into is a place that has been repeatedly
targeted by Ukrainian drones in recent
months and to counter that Russia has
deployed a large number of air defense
systems in the region and has been using
this hybrid Warfare method where it
tries to jam electronic communication
systems to confuse the drones what's
been Russia's response Russia has said
that it needs to wait for the findings
of the investigation and that it would
be wrong to build hypotheses before the
conclusions of those inquiries unn the
United States has called on Moscow for a
very full and transparent investigation
that's normally a call that Russia would
find fairly easy to ignore but it can't
ignore one of its closest neighbors the
aaban government has been yet to comment
on it publicly but you can be fairly
safely betting that there will be a
flurry of quiet Communications between
the two
the political crisis in South Korea has
deepened after its Parliament voted to
impeach the acting president huu whose
prime minister had only been acting
president since December 14th his
appointment followed the impeachment of
President yunsuk Yol over his attempt to
impose martial law in early
December estonia's prime minister Christ
Michelle at a press conference demanding
answers over the outage of an undersea
power cable connected to Finland he says
Finnish authorities seized a ship
carrying Russian oil in the Baltic Sea
on suspicion it caused the
damage Israel has struck multiple
targets linked to the Iran aligned
houthi movement in Yemen including s
International Airport the head of the
World Health Organization tedras adinam
gasis said he was about to board a plane
when the airport came under attack and
won't be able to leave until the damage
is repaired Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu says Israel is only
at the beginning of its campaign against
the
houthis Brazil's labor authorities have
claimed that Chinese workers at a
construction site for a factory owned by
China's electric vehicle producer byd
are victims of human trafficking byd and
contractor Jin Jang group have agreed to
assist and housed the 163 workers in
hotels until a deal to end their
contracts is reached both organizations
did not immediately respond to requests
for comment on Friday but jinjang
rejected the Brazilian authorities
assessment on Monday that the workers
were operating under slavery like
[Music]
conditions core inflation in Tokyo
accelerated in December while Services
inflation held steady according to the
latest data that's keeping alive Market
expectations for a near-term interest
rate rise in Japan the boj's next policy
meeting starts on January 23rd when some
analysts expect a raise of short-term
rates separate data shows that factory
output fell 2.3% in November from the
previous month casting doubt on the
strength of Japan's fragile economic
recovery
[Music]
Z's son sadik would have been 26 years
old if he had survived the devastating
Indian Ocean tsunami which claimed the
lives of some
230,000 people along the coasts of more
than a dozen countries 20 years ago in
December
2004 SAA also lost a daughter in the 9.1
magnitude earthquake which triggered the
tsunami her body was recovered but her
son's was not
a reporter Zara matarani in Indonesia
has sa's story so SAA is one of the many
survivors of the a tsunami in 2004 she
currently lives in band AE the same city
in which she lost her son sidik who was
at that time six like many other
survivors SAA first experienced the
tsunami as a wave of thunderous noise
outside of her house which she thought
was a storm
she then hugged her son tightly praying
that it was just a storm but then when
she stepped out of the house it was
actually a wave of water she carried her
son all the way to the mosque but the
wave crashed at her and brought her son
away and in front of the mosque was
where she lost her son s spoke to us in
front of the mosque with her other
son she was hopeful yet she was grieving
her son her other son was crying she was
describing what she felt Howa does still
hold that last bit of hope that her son
might be out there somewhere in Java
maybe having survived uh the tsunami her
other son posts on social media calling
for her son to come home even citing
that we hope that you can come home
before I
die she lost her daughter in the same
incident however they did found her body
which is now Ed among many other victims
in the mass grave in
Bach she prays there regularly with her
surviving son every year during the
exact moment the tsunami happened while
she prayed she always hoped and prayed
to God that sidik is out there somewhere
still
surviving while more and more cities
urge police to crack down on homeless
people sleeping in parks and streets Los
Angeles is taking a different approach
so you're talking over 40,000 people
where are you going to put them that's
mayor Karen bass her signature program
inside safe has moved 23,000 people off
the streets this year and into hotel
rooms or shelters while providing Social
Services with soaring rents and an acute
housing shortage California has an
estimated
180,000 unhoused people Governor Gavin
nusum has been urging officials to clamp
down on homeless encampments after the
Supreme Court ruled in June that cities
could enforce camping
bans and while some 117 cities in the US
have passed some version of an anti-
camping law bu says La will stick with
its approach and provide a roof over
people's heads one of the things that
we've tried to demonstrate with inside
safe is that you can get people off the
streets immediately which obviously
helps the individuals but it also helps
the businesses the schools the
neighborhoods because it compromises
everybody's quality of life in the past
2 years nine sidewalk encampments have
disappeared from
Hollywood Advocates praise LA's approach
but caution the permanent housing is
what the city needs to focus on Pete
white with Los Angeles Community Action
Network provides services to thousands
of people camped out on skid Ro our
stronger critique of an inside safe is
that once the money is gone and the
units are folded back into the hotel
owner's hands homelessness will continue
progress is slow on that front but the
city has inaugurated an apartment
building where 58 formerly homeless
people including tour guide Sayad sha
now have permanent housing but being in
the inside Safe program me getting into
the hotel in out permanent housing I
mean I feel better I look better my
teeth are finally clean you know I
didn't look like this before
[Music]
bro and it's Friday so we have a
recommended listen for you tune into our
special episode of Rus world news
tomorrow where our Global photographers
will be discussing how they captured
some of our photos of the year for
2024 it'll be available wherever you get
your podcasts for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app don't forget to
follow us on your favorite podcast
player and we'll be back on Monday with
our daily headline show
