today president Trump's attempt to
freeze Federal funding stares chaos
before it's blocked in court immigration
enforcement raids hit major cities
across the us what we know about the
rebel Uprising in the Democratic
Republic of Congo and the US Federal
Reserve wraps its first meeting since
Trump took office what's the Outlook
just over a week
in it's Wednesday January 29th
this is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Christopher walljasper in Chicago
and I'm Tara Oaks in
London president Donald Trump's attempt
to freeze hundreds of billions of
dollars in federal aid has been
temporarily blocked just minutes before
it was due to take
effect a federal judge put it on paes
after it seed chaos throughout
government and stirred fears it would
disrupt programs that serve tens of
millions of
Americans at least three lawmakers said
that Healthcare Providers were blocked
from the payment portal for Medicaid
which covers about 70 million Americans
though the White House said the program
was
exempt Andy Sullivan has been looking
into what's behind the freeze so Andy
can they do this they almost certainly
can't do this according to law Congress
is the one that sets federal spending
and the president has very limited
authority to do anything with that he
basically needs to get permission from
Congress if he wants to not spend money
this is obviously going to be a huge
fight in the weeks and months ahead
Democrats are already saying it's
illegal but this is clearly the pattern
that we're seeing from Trump it's shoot
first ask questions later you don't ask
permission you just go ahead and do the
thing what kind of programs does this
freeze effect I mean the Memo's very
vague but as far as we can tell this
would freeze a wide range of payments
things like school lunches foster care
programs Highway construction money you
name it but you know we're talking tens
if not hundreds of billions of dollars
here if this money gets disrupted that
would make it very difficult especially
for places like Louisiana and
Mississippi that really depend
disproportionately on federal aid to
cover their
[Music]
needs a deadly Stampede in India at
least seven people have been killed as
tens of millions gathered during the 6
we mahum Hindu
festival Witnesses say there was a huge
surge near the meeting of Three Holy
Rivers where dip is considered
particularly
sacred no rest in the AI race not even
on the first day of Lunar New Year not
to be outdone by others Chinese tech
company Alibaba has released its own
version of its quen 2.5 AI model which
it says surpasses the highly acclaimed
deep seek
V3 more job shakeups at the federal
level as part of the plan to shrink the
size of a US Government the Trump
Administration says it's offering
buyouts to 2 million civilian federal
workers to encourage them to
quit and it's Senate confirmation
hearing day for someone trying to land a
top federal job Robert F Kennedy Jr
Trump's controversial pick to head up
Health and Human Services faces scrutiny
from both sides of the aisle plus a
scathing indictment from his cousin
Caroline Kennedy who urged Senators not
to vote for him calling him a predator
with dangerous Healthcare
views a new Reuters poll finds that
Americans have a dim view of some of
President Donald Trump's early Spate of
executive orders overall the poll showed
45% of Americans approve of Trump's
performance as president the share who
disapproved was slightly larger at 46%
an increase from 39% in the prior
poll Atomic scientists have moved the
quote Doomsday Clock 1 second closer to
Mid midnight the bulletin of atomic
scientists have set the clock to 89
seconds before the theoretical point of
annihilation closer than it's ever been
before the US Federal Reserve wraps its
first meeting under the Trump
Administration today with little
expectations of changing the federal
funds rate despite the president's calls
for further faster Cuts our fed reporter
Howard Schneider has been looking into
how a flurry of executive orders and
other actions by the new Administration
could impact the fed's long-term Outlook
we'll see what pal has to say this
afternoon it's also recent that none of
it's going to be seen in the data yet
but I think it does show the potential
for real disruption and uncertainty
around this new Administration I mean
even things like pausing all federal
spending that can feed through into
consumption and growth not even to
mention we've now got threats of tariffs
going on to Mexico and Canada as soon as
as this Friday is it inflationary price
shock who knows and then there's the
whole deportation issue and whether the
Immigrant Workforce Falls or not uh but
certainly there's a potential there to
to put some constraints on the labor
market but they'll want to see how all
this plays out a bit before making any
further decisions and is not just the
FED keeping a close eye on how Chum's
policies play out Bond investors are
also watching tune in to this week's
episode of reuter's econ World podcast
to hear all about wall Street's Bond
vigilantes and how they could check
Trump's
power you're in New York City this
morning here getting the dirt BS off
these streets that's Homeland Security
secretary Christy gnome in a video she
posted on X of an immigration raid she
joined gome posted the video in which
two officers in the Bronx take a
handcuffed man into a vehicle the man
had been charged with kidnapping assault
and burglary related to a crime in
Aurora Colorado Immigration and Customs
Enforcement is reporting between a, and
1200 arrests a day that's nearly three
times the daily average in 2024
immigration reporter Ted hessen has been
looking at the Nationwide raids what
we've seen in the last few days is the
Trump Administration greatly increase
the immigration enforcement that they're
doing around the country those arrests
have skyrocketed
essentially what they appear to be doing
is going out with lists of people that
have some sort of either criminal charge
or criminal conviction and trying to
find them and make arrests now what the
Trump Administration has said is that
when they go to places where these
offenders are if they find other people
that don't have legal immigration status
that they'll pick them up and what you
see here is under Trump's ice basically
anyone is on the table if they're
encountered by an immigration officer
[Music]
gunfire on the streets of G in the
Democratic Republic of Congo M23 Rebels
have seized the airport east of the city
potentially cutting off a main route for
Aid to reach hundreds of thousands of
displaced
people it's been the worst escalation of
a long running conflict in more than a
decade rooted in in the long Fallout
from the Rwandan Genocide and the
struggle for control of Congo's mineral
resources in the congales capital kinasa
protesters attacked a un compound and
foreign embassies expressing anger of
what they said was foreign
interference Joe bavier is covering the
conflict from Johannesburg South Africa
the official stated reason for the M23
Rebellion is the protection of a tootsie
minority
in the Eastern Borderlands near Rwanda
and in Uganda that the rebels say have
been under threat in the wake of
rwanda's 1994 genocide but what we've
seen actually in the last month was a
very concerted effort by the rebels to
gain territory and to make advances and
there's been talk among diplomats we've
spoken to that Paul kagame rwanda's
president is taking advantage of a
special moment there's quite a bit of
kind of Crisis fatigue and in the United
States the uh return of Donald Trump to
the White House what's been the official
line from Congo's leadership and
rwanda's about this conflict well Congo
has always said they're not fighting a
congales rebellion they are fighting a
Rwandan proxy Force there's quite
detailed evidence of really
sophisticated surface to air missiles
GPS jamming equipment armored vehicles
snipers Special Forces so if you believe
the evidence put forward by the United
Nations experts a serious military
intervention by the Rwandan Army
rwanda's always said that it doesn't
support rebels in eastern Congo they
basically have a kind of a blanket
Denial in the face of accusations from
panels of of un experts who who look
into this
[Music]
and for today's recommended read the
impact of the US's International Aid
freeze Healthcare centers serving tens
of thousands of Myanmar refugees along
the border with Thailand have been
ordered to close this Friday after
Donald Trump shut down most foreign aid
forcing Thai officials to transport the
sickest patients to other facilities
there's a link for story in the pop
description for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app don't forget to
follow us on your favorite podcast
player we'll be back tomorrow with our
daily headline show
