[Music]
from this moment on America's decline is
over a second Trump era has begun and
the new US president is wasting no time
imposing his will on the
government we'll unpack his initial
executive orders and pardons plus we're
at the US Mexico border to gauge the
immediate impact of Trump's return
[Music]
it's Tuesday January 21st this is reuter
world news bringing you everything you
need to know from the front lines in 10
minutes every weekday I'm Jonah Green in
New York and I'm Tara Oaks in
Liverpool the future is ours and our
golden age has just begun and embolden
Donald Trump has reclaimed the
presidency promising a Crackdown on
illegal immigration and portraying
himself as a savior chosen by God to
rescue a faltering Nation my life was
saved for a reason I was saved by God to
make America great
again much of Trump's rhetoric mirror
his words from when he was first sworn
in as president speaking about a country
with a failing economy and cities torn
apart by crime the 78-year-old Trump is
the first felon to occupy the White
House and he portrayed himself as a
victim of a weaponized justice system
under Democratic former President Joe
Biden Jeff Mason covers the White House
one of the themes was sort of painting
himself as a savior he also was
certainly very critical of the previous
administration now former President
Biden and former vice president Harris
were sitting behind behind him and he
was talking very negatively about the
last four years so what did these
speeches tell us about what we should
expect from the next four years well it
certainly shows that President Trump
hasn't changed in terms of his
predilection to talk and to list
Grievances and to a those Grievances and
there's a broad list from domestic
issues and what he believes was the
persecution that he faced as president
and after his first term as president to
economic issues he talked in the oval a
lot about tariffs and wanting to start
tariffs on Canada and Mexico in February
and generally saying that the US isn't
treated well by any country but
grievance is definitely a theme and was
a theme in his first presidency and to
your question I think it will be a theme
in his second term as
well the swearing in ceremony took place
in doors this year in the capital rot
thund which four years ago was invaded
by a mob of trump
supporters once in the Oval Office so
this is a big one Trump pardoned 1500 of
those riers they get we hope they come
out tonight frankly releases of his
supporters have already started Stuart
rhs the former leader of the oathkeeper
militia who had his 18-year prison
sentence commuted was released early
after midnight among those due to be
released are leaders of the farri right
proud boys organization ation including
some who were convicted of seditious
conspiracy about 40 men wearing proud
boys Insignia traded insults with
protesters on the streets of Washington
during Trump's
inauguration the Bon was just one of a
sthe of executive orders Trump signed on
Monday among them he targeted illegal
immigration slashed environmental
regulations ordered the withdrawal from
the Paris climate treaty and the World
Health Organization Trump also declared
Mexican drug cartels terrorist
organizations and didn't rule out a
military intervention organizations
would you think about ordering US
Special Forces into Mexico to take him
out Could
Happen stranger things have
happened Graham sluttery covers politics
in Washington so Graham how does it work
are these first a orders now the law of
the land it really varies a number are
are essentially publicity stunts or at
least there are more statements of
principle than anything concrete
changing the Gulf of Mexico to the Gulf
of America certainly he can direct the
Geological Survey to start calling it
the Gulf of America however it's pretty
unlikely that it would come to be known
that way by Foreign Nations and
international entities there are a
number of actions however including
really his his most consequential that
are frankly on pretty shaky legal ground
the most eye-catching example is
birthright citizenship most people
believe believe that the 14th Amendment
to the US Constitution basically grants
Americans citizenship upon birth here we
could see a pretty significant battle on
that
front so as we mentioned Trump has
kicked off his long promised immigration
Crackdown declaring illegal immigration
at the US Mexico border a National
[Music]
Emergency in several along the border
the impact of Trump's return began
taking effect almost
immediately migrants like margaris OKO
from Colombia who are trying to enter
the us legally arrived for their
appointments at border crossings but
were turned back by
authorities she says everything is
falling apart and she's worried about
what will happen to her on the streets
Ted hessen covers immigration the
program was known as cbp1 and it's an
app that allows migrants who are already
in Mexico to basically schedule a time
to come to a legal border crossing and
present themselves and request Asylum so
we saw within minutes of trump taking
office that US border authorities had
shut the program down and that people
who were waiting in Mexico saw that
their appointments were canceled and
they were just uh stunned by that change
there was no explanation and in many
cases they weren't sure what they would
do next some coming from countries like
Venezuela or Cuba going back to their
home country didn't seem like an option
and it just wasn't clear what the next
steps would be and so US Customs and
Border Protection has estimated that
there were some 280,000 people in Mexico
who are logging into the app on a
regular basis and the question now is
going to be what do they do next do they
try and cross illegally do they come to
uh legal border crossing and try and
request Asylum there and what will
happen in that circumstance or do they
need to either stay in Mexico or look
for another country to seek refuge in um
and it may be a tumultuous few weeks as
migrants who were there sort out what
the next steps will
[Music]
be over on markets everything that
investors had suspected about another
Donald Trump presidency has proven true
in the first hours of day one currency
traders in particular were left with a
case of whiplash a lack of tariff
threats in Trump's inauguration speech
was taken as a green light to sell the
dollar then hours later the new US
president surprised with plans for 25%
levies on Canada and Mexico from
February the 1st the Canadian dollar and
peso then
pleted before leaving office President
Joe Biden issued preemptive pardons for
people that Trump has targeted for
retaliation
included in the list are several of
Biden's family members and members of
the committee that investigated January
6th Trump on Monday condemned the
move and a possible pass for Tik Tock
Trump has signed an executive order
delaying the ban on the app for 75
days Elon musk's hand gesture Trump's
inauguration parade has drawn online
comparisons to announce the salute thank
you for making it happen thank you but
the Anti-Defamation leag which is a
leading tracker of anti-Semitism says
dumping his hand over his heart while
extending his right arm out emphatically
at an upward angle looked more like a
moment of enthusiasm musk has dismissed
criticism of a hand gesture as a tired
attack Russian President Vladimir Putin
has held a video call with Chinese
president Xi Jinping in which he
proposed further developing their
strategic partnership the call where
Putin waved at XI and addressed him as
dear friend took place just hours after
Trump swearing
again Palestinians are searching for
thousands of Gins believed to be buried
under Rubble the debris is thought to be
contaminated with spest which is
complicating the efforts a un report
estimates that rebuilding gaza's
shattered homes could take at least
until 2040
and Prince Harry's lawsuit against ruper
Murdoch's British newspaper group heads
to trial today he's suing over alleged
illegal activities carried out by
journalists and private investigators
the publisher has always rejected claims
of unlawful activities at his
papers and for today's recommended read
all the very latest developments from
the annual World economic Forum meeting
in Davos there's a link to our live
coverage in the Pod description for more
on any of the stories from today check
out reuters.com or the Reuters app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back tomorrow
with our daily headline show
