today a federal judge pauses Trump's
buyout offer as musk continues his doge
takeover India says it's engaging with
the US to ensure Deportes are not
mistreated plus the politics of the
Super
Bowl it's Friday February 7th this is
Ro's world news bringing you everything
you need to know from the front lines in
10 minutes every weekday I'm Tor Oaks
and Liverpool and I'm Sharon R garon in
New
Jersey president Donald Trump has
authorized economic and travel sanctions
targeting people who work on
international criminal court
investigations of US citizens or Allies
like Israel the move coincides with
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
netanyahu's visit to Washington he's
wanted by the IC over the war in
Gaza and during his visit with Trump
Netanyahu gave him a gift a golden pager
mounted on a wooden stand it's an
apparent reference to Israel's September
2024 operation in Lebanon and handheld
radios and Pages used by Hezbollah were
detonated by
Israel and Israel has told the United
Nations Human Rights Council that it
will stop engaging with the body
alleging that that it's biased council
members have frequently raised
allegations of Israeli human rights
violations in the Gaza
War less than 24 hours after Trump's
executive order the NCAA has fallen in
line with his new policy the governing
body for Collegiate Sports has banned
transgender women from competing in
women's sports effective
immediately Panama has pulled out of
China's belt and Road initiative in a
win for what
Panama has given the required 90-day
notice of its decision not to renew its
participation in Chinese president XI
Jin Ping's signature infrastructure
program a US judge has given federal
workers more time to consider a buyout
offer from the Trump Administration the
ruling pushes the deadline until at
least Monday the buyout effort is part
of a far-reaching plan by Trump and his
allies to re in the size of federal
bureaucracy reporter Tim Reed is in
Washington it's an across the board
attempt to cut the number of workers the
unions have been telling them not to
take the offer that it's very suspect
it's not clear that the offer is even
legal because Congress for example has
not appropriated money to pay off
government workers and the backdrop of
this effort to slim down government is
Elon musk's Department of government
efficiency so far musk and and his AIDS
and a lot of them are very very young
early 20 something software Engineers
they have taken over the office of
personnel management which is an obscure
sounding agency but it's the human
resources arm of the entire federal
government and they've taken over a
computer system there that has personal
data they have taken over the computer
system at the US Treasury Department
which pays out nearly every payment that
the US government makes every year it's
it's it's over $6 trillion do a year
they've taken over the general Services
Administration which overseas government
contracts and all the government
buildings and government infrastructure
so government's experts I've spoken to
have said that musk is basically now in
charge of what they call the fundamental
Plumbing of the US government he's kind
of been given the keys to the kingdom
and he is totally unaccountable and no
one yet knows exact L what he and his
software Engineers are actually doing
inside these computer
[Music]
systems when the Bureau of Labor
Statistics releases its jobs report for
January today it's expected to show
growth and a steady employment picture
econ and markets editor Dan Burns has
been looking at Joe Biden's last report
card and what it means for Donald Trump
on balance we're we're expecting another
month of pretty solid job gains to have
occurred in January our estimate is
around
170,000 oh that's a little shy of of uh
the Run rate we'd seen through most of
the Biden years it's really kind of in
line with what we've seen in the last
year or so where job gains have
moderated but they've still been pretty
healthy so as far as what we expect for
the month of January it looks like all
indicators are that it was a pretty
solid month of gains yeah the survey
taken for this month's figures was taken
in the week just before Trump took
office uh so this offers the perch on
which Trump takes the job market and the
economy from this point forward and in
this week's econ world Listen to a deep
dive into what Trump wants as economists
and policy makers around the world try
to get their head around a new era of
diplomacy done through trade it's
available now wherever you get your
podcasts
[Music]
hinder Singh was one of 104 Indians
deported by us authorities this week in
a much publicized transfer by a military
plane he says their hands and feet were
cuffed during the 4our journey and were
Unshackled after reaching
India US border patrol Chief Michael W
Banks posted a video showing some men
being led into a military plane in
handcuffs and leg eggs and chains adding
that they had successfully returned
illegal aliens to India the transfer
fulfills one of Trump's key election
pledges but is an embarrassment for
India a close partner whose prime
minister Narendra Modi is due to visit
Washington next week it's given the
country's opposition parties a chance to
hit back at modi's government demanding
a discussion in Parliament over how the
Deportes were treated India's foreign
minister super manam J shanka had the to
say we are of course engaging the US
government to ensure that the returning
depues are not mistreated in any manner
during the flight he says that it's
standard practice for us Immigration and
Customs Enforcement authorities to
restrain Deportes but that it was not
done with the women and children on the
plane to
India a spokesperson for the US Embassy
in Delhi has said that enforcing
immigration laws is critically important
to the security and public Public Safety
of the United
[Music]
States as you probably know Sunday is
the Super Bowl so we caught up with our
sports reporter Amy tenery who's in New
Orleans to talk politics and pig skin
Amy what are the big threads that I need
to know about going into the game right
now what we have going on is the Kansas
City Chiefs chasing history they want to
become the first team to win three super
bowls in a row they have their Superstar
quarterback Patrick Mahomes and
obviously Andy Reid who is one of the
winningest coaches in all of the leagues
history they are favored against the
Philadelphia Eagles whom they actually
beat two years ago so while they they do
have a lot of advantages on their side
Philadelphia is out for revenge and they
don't want to have that happen again
this time in New Orleans this is
obviously a huge cultural moment in the
US and right now the culture is
dominated by political debate especially
over diversity and this game isn't
immune to this debate either it seems
yeah it's been a fascinating week here
in New Orleans it started out with the
commissioner's press conference in which
he was asked very pointedly whether the
league was going to go along with some
of what the Trump Administration is
calling for with regard to diversity
equity and inclusion the NFL for decades
now has been the subject of criticism
for its overwhelmingly white coaching
and ownership ranks and even just
Personnel within the team the league
level and here was Roger cadell saying
diversity makes the NFL better and that
they're not going to abandon these
programs and then of course it was only
a day or two later we found out that
President Trump himself was going to
come to attend the game there's also
been a lot of attention on the endzone
slogan the last few years it was n
racism but this year they've selected
Choose Love love instead which they said
was to honor the victims of a New Year's
Day attack here in New Orleans that left
14 dead there are a lot of people who
are skeptical about the timing of that
decision you know now you have Donald
Trump coming town and you're not using
that slogan anymore but the NFL told us
bluntly that the president's plan to
attend the Super Bowl had nothing to do
with the slogan that they selected and
finally the halftime show Kendrick Lamar
is going to be performing and he's known
to be political and he'll have the
president in the audience yeah I think
Kendrick Lamar was a fascinating Choice
his work touches on racial and social
justice poverty and he's very left
leaning politically and I think that it
would be reasonable to expect that he
will take every advantage of having that
audience with the Republican president
of the United States
[Music]
and before we leave you a recommended
listen for your weekend in this week's
special episode of reuter's world news
we take a look at armed shipments to
Ukraine and how they were stalled during
Joe Biden's final year in the white
house right up until his term was nearly
over that pod drops on Saturday morning
for more on any of the stories from
today check out reuters.com or the the
reuter app don't forget to follow us on
your favorite podcast player we'll be
back on Monday with our daily headline
show
