today a victory for Trump and musk's
Department of government efficiency New
York mayor Adams fights for his
political life and the crypto Scandal
threatening Argentina's
president it's Wednesday February 19th
this is reuter's world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tara Oaks in London and I'm Jonah
Green in New York
US president Donald Trump has dismissed
Ukraine's concern about being left out
of us-russian talks in Saudi Arabia and
I think I have the power to end this war
and I think it's going very well but
today I heard oh well we weren't invited
well you've been there for three years
you should have ended it three years you
should have never started it you could
have made a deal Trump says he would
probably meet Russian President Vladimir
Putin this month but the Kremlin has
said it might take a little longer to
prepare the face-to-face encounter
sources tell rers Ukrainian President
Vladimir zalinski has postponed his
visit to Saudi Arabia in order not to
give legitimacy to Tuesday's meeting
between us and Russian officials in
Riad Brazil's former president Jer
bolsonaro has been charged with leading
a plot to overthrow the government the
charges follow a 2-year police
investigation into the election denying
movement after his 2022 election
loss Pope Francis has the onset of
double pneumonia the Vatican said on
Tuesday complicating treatment for the
88-year-old and indicating a further
deterioration in his fragile
Health not
guilty the moment raer ASAP Rocky was
found not guilty of firing a gun at a
former friend
as a verdict was announced he leapt into
the arms of his family and partner
Rihanna having been cleared of two
felony counts of assault with the
semi-automatic
weapon the UN Human Rights office says
three children were executed by the M23
rebels in Congo Rwanda rejects
allegations from Congo the United
Nations and Western powers that it
supports the group with arms and troops
[Applause]
markets now earn some new tariff news
Trump says he intends to impose tariffs
in the neighborhood of
25% on Autos semiconductors and
pharmaceutical Imports on Friday Trump
said levies on automobiles would come as
soon as April 2nd but he hasn't provided
a date for the other sectors saying he
wants to provide time for drug and Chip
makers to set up us factories so that
they can avoid tariffs
a victory for Trump and his chief
government Cost Cutter Elon Musk US
District Judge Tanya chuin has denied a
challenge by Attorneys General from
several Democratic states to prevent
musk's Department of government
efficiency from accessing federal
agencies computer systems or directing
firings of government workers while the
litigation plays out the ruling gives
Doge access to internal systems that can
contain sensitive information at the IRS
and the Social Security Administration
among others reporter Tim Reed has been
tracking Doge I don't think that's the
end of the lawsuit but in terms of an
initial victory for musk and Trump this
was a major ruling this wrecking ball
that's been taken to the government has
been happening at warp speed and there
are well over a dozen lawsuits now
challenging a lot of these moves but no
one knows how many if any will be
successful so everyone is now looking to
see who's next inside these government
agencies and whether they'll start then
going after career civil servants and
managers that are deemed insufficiently
loyal to Trump's agenda we're seeing top
officials of agencies resigning first at
the treasury Department and now at the
Social Security Administration what's
happening there so the acting head of
the Social Security Administration Ste
down she's been at the agency over 30
years because because representatives of
musk's were wanting to access this
massive database inside the Social
Security Administration that basically
has the personal details of just about
every single American and their children
and their spouses and every job they've
ever had and their home addresses the
fear among musk's critics and a lot of
Democrats on Capitol Hill is that if he
can get inside the Social Security
Administration computers then they can
start possibly stopping Social Security
checks going out or reducing the amount
and obviously they're also trying to
access the database at the Internal
Revenue Service which again has
everyone's tax returns going back years
and years and so there are lawsuits now
challenging musque and doa's ability to
actually get inside these computers but
if they do get access to them then
everyone's most personal data will be
open for musk's team to view and do what
with we don't know
yet as we reported in Monday's pot
Argentine president Javier Malay is in
the midst of a domestic Scandal for
recommending a cryptocurrency that
quickly crashed now an Argentine judge
has been assigned to investigate
allegations of Fraud and opposition
lawmakers say mle could even face an
impeachment
trial M denies any wrongdoing and in a
television interview says he requested
an investigation into the matter
himself luender Elliot has been
following the Scandal if the
investigation shows that this was
planned in some way and mle did it
intentionally with the aim of boosting
the valuation then it could take him
down given that his position while
strengthened by his success on the
economy remains pretty precarious due to
his his lack of congressional support
and and the Reliance on delicate
Alliance within the kind of conservative
groups in Argentina the presidential
spokespersons came out on Tuesday and
absolutely denied that you know any
bribes were involved Malay has admitted
that he made a miscalculation but I
think there are some key questions over
what responsibility does a political
leader have if he or she posts about
some sort of business in a positive
light and I think part of the reason why
this has particularly hurt Malay is
because it's also involves Finance but
it also hurts his sort of man of the
people image he's been very clear about
you know being anti-corruption having a
very transparent image so even just the
fact that these words are circulating
around bribery around fraud is having an
impact on his
image a federal judge today will hear
from us prosecutor
as to why they are seeking to dismiss
criminal charges against New York mayor
Eric
Adams the hearing comes after a trump
appointed doj official ordered
prosecutors to seek dismissal at least a
half dozen Federal prosecutors resigned
rather than obeyed the order though
others did eventually comply no matter
what comes of today's hearing Adam's
political future is seriously in
question lcone is our New York courts
reporter so Luke what is it that the
judge is weighing here it's unusual for
a judge to hold a hearing rather than
automatically dismiss charges in in this
case the justice department has asked
the judge to dismiss the charges without
prejudice that means they want to be
able to potentially bring those charges
again after the November New York
mayoral election a lot of critics
including the former US attorney who
resigned over this have said that kind
of looks like a threat from the justice
department to bring charges against
Adams again if he doesn't cooperate with
Trump's immigration policy what is Adams
saying Adams is saying he will work with
the Trump Administration that he ports
Law and Order he has long kind of been a
dissenter among the Democratic party on
on immigration policy um so you know
he's saying he is doing what's best to
preserve public Public Safety in in New
York and that it's independent from his
criminal case and Governor Kathy hul has
also been meeting with top officials on
whether she should remove Adams from
office if she takes that extraordinary
step or if he resigns then what the
city's public Advocate jumani Williams
would become the acting mayor he would
then have to announce the date for a
special election to to be held in the
coming months that would come very close
to the June primary for the Democratic
nomination for mayor which is all but
determined to which is all but set to
determine who will be mayor given that
New York is heavily
[Music]
Democratic for our recommended read
today we're taking you
26,000 light years away to the center of
the Milky Way looking at how NASA's
James Webb Space Telescope
is providing the best look yet at the
chaotic events unfolding around a super
massive black hole called Sagittarius
AAR there's a link in the pot
description for more on any of the
stories from today check out royers.com
or the ruers app don't forget to follow
us on your favorite podcast player we'll
be back tomorrow with our daily headline
show
