today guilty verdicts in the mass rape
trial that's rocked
France the Federal Reserve has made its
final rate cut of the Year what's ahead
for us fiscal policy remains uncertain
Donald Trump threatens to upend a stop
Gap spending bill just days before the
money is set to run out and Iran's
revolutionary guards tighten their grip
on the country's oil
industry it's Thursday December 19th
this is reuter's world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Christopher walljasper in Chicago
and I'm Tara Oaks in
Liverpool Dominique pelico has been
found guilty of repeatedly drugging and
raping his wife for almost a decade and
inviting dozens of strangers to rape her
while she was unconscious in the their
home he's been sentenced to 20 years in
prison the trial has shocked France and
reverberated around the world Julet
Jairo is in Avenue jizelle piko's
courage has really resonated with French
women and also has really shocked all of
France and even Beyond and so her case
has raise awareness around sexual
violence within a couple and also around
drug facilitated assault and so many
women have been able to identify with
her because contrary to previous
prominent sexual violence cases in
France she's a normal person so people
in her can see themselves or their
mother or their grandmother and so it
has really prompted like a lot of soul
searching France has like a this hotline
for women who are victims of violence
and in the past few weeks and months
they've seen like a wave of colors
talking about drug facilitated assault
thinking that maybe they have been
victims and you've also written that
this is prompted medical professionals
to go through a kind of soul searching
to reexamine how they respond to
potential victims right how has that
manifested itself to think that this
woman went to see doctors for years and
years and no one thought that maybe she
was a victim of drug facilitated assault
and so it had really sort of awoken all
medical professionals and so now many of
them are seeking
training president-elect Donald Trump is
attacking a bipartisan measure aimed at
averting a government
shutdown Trump along with Elon Musk
claims the stopgap spending bill is a
giveaway to
Democrats instead he's asking Congress
to rewrite the spending bill just days
before before funding expires and is
asking to raise the nation's debt
ceiling and he has a warning for those
that break
ranks politics editor Scott Malone is in
Washington Congress came into the date
thinking okay we need to pass funding to
keep the government running past
Saturday when the partial shutdown would
begin because they're out of money and
run it through March 14th but Trump then
moved the gold posts and moved them
substantially he said that what he wants
Congress to do before he takes office is
to eliminate the United States
government's Federal government's debt
ceiling it's exceptionally politically
sensitive and it carries real risks if
the US ever were to actually break its
debt ceiling it would be in technical
default on its bonds and that would
shake the US Treasury Market and really
shake Global markets the second piece of
the ask from Trump is that they pass a
what's called called a clean continuing
resolution that doesn't include any
other priorities in it the deal that
they had reached on on Tuesday included
money for for Farmers it included more
than hundred billion dollars in disaster
aid for North Carolina and Florida and a
bunch of other legislative priorities
that that both parties had sought and
Trump suggested that any Republican
lawmakers who were to vote for the clean
CR
that also doesn't address the de ceiling
should be primaried by fellow
[Music]
Republicans and from fiscal policy to
monetary policy Donald Trump also looms
large the FED has delivered another
quarter percentage rate cut but the
Outlook is uncertain according to Fed
chair J Powell so I would say today was
a was a closer call um but we decided it
was the right call because persist
inflation a still strong US economy and
the possible impact of Trump's economic
policies make the fed's Mandate even
more difficult in the new year since
September the FED has walked back
expectations of rate Cuts in 2025 from a
full percentage point to now just half
our fed reporter Howard Schneider asked
J Powell about how the FED is gauging
Trump's possible impact on the economy
in the year to come so they they will
say and he said too early not enough
information call us in 6 months or
whatever but make no mistake they're
starting to puzzle through this and the
staff are starting to model different
scenarios and in fact pal said that some
of the members as they penciled in fewer
rate Cuts next year and a slower pace of
rate cutting and slightly firmer
inflation said they were conditioning
that outlook on likely fiscal policy to
come here's pal at the press conference
think that when the path is uncertain
you go a little bit slower it's not
unlike driving on a foggy night or
walking into a dark room full of
furniture you just slow down and so po
also weighed in on Trump's idea of
starting a crypto Reserve we're not
allowed to own Bitcoin uh the Federal
Reserve X says what we can own and we're
we're not looking for a law change you
know Austin gouby was asked about this a
couple weeks ago before the meeting and
he said well it kind of gives me
indigestion they consider it an asset
class a highly speculative asset class
not a currency
beyond the US economy if you want to
know more about how Europe is preparing
for Trump 2.0 and his tariff plan listen
to this week's episode of econ world
with carel crimm it's out now wherever
you get your
podcasts thousands of Amazon workers
will walk off a job today in The crucial
crunch of a holiday season Union
officials say the retailer failed to
come to the bargaining table to
negotiate contracts
the US has reported its first severe
case of bird flu in a Louisiana resident
who is hospitalized in critical
condition California has declared an
emergency as the h5n1 virus spread more
widely in Dairy herds and infected
dozens of Farm Workers this
year at least 100 North Korean troops
deployed to Russia have been killed and
a thousand injured in combat against
Ukrainian forces in the KK region that's
according to a South Korean lawmaker
citing the country's spy
agency Iran's oil industry this year has
generated more than $50 billion in
revenue for Tan that's despite tough
sanctions from Western Nations that
severely limit where that oil can be
sold and as our senior Commodities
correspondent Jonathan Saul has been
reporting those sanctions are partly why
nearly half of Iran's oil is now being
managed by Iran's revolutionary guards
it all started back in roughly around
2012 when Iran started to really feel
the heat from Western sanctions and they
had to come up with a plan of how best
to fund the Revolutionary guards so
essentially the Revolutionary guards
will be given the oil and they have to
then come up with a plan of marketing
Distributing shipping the exports and
they get to keep the proceeds off it and
it all came about also because the
revolution became so Adept at sanctions
busting through a series of um networks
PLO using everything from front
companies to Shadow Fleet tankers that
they became increasingly able to export
from the point of origin to the actual
destination so what does this oil mean
for conflicts around the region the
exports that are used and facilitated
via the irgc have essentially helped to
bankroll a lot of the militia groups
that have been involved in the AIS of
resistance against Israel but also
consolidating their position over
various countries including Lebanon in
the case of hisbah Yemen with regards to
the houthis and also Iraqi militias uh
together with Syria now with the fall of
Bashar al-assad in Syria it's going to
become a lot more complicated for groups
such as hisbah to get their financing as
clearly as they did beforehand and how
has Iran responded you're reporting well
so far there's there's not been any
official comment from any Iranian
officials we also tried to approach
major organizations such as the irgc and
the oil Ministry and we haven't received
any response so
[Music]
far today's recommended read is the
latest installment in our fenel series
about the chemical brokers who are
funneling fenel ingredients from China
to Mexico's cartels for more on feno's
Global Supply Chain have a listen to our
summer special episode there's a link to
that and the special report in the Pod
description for more on any of the
stories you heard today check out
reuters.com or the Reuters app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back tomorrow
with our daily headline show
