today what we know about the critical
mineral deal between Ukraine and the US
Republicans Advanced Trump's tax cut
plan plus a turnaround for the birth
rate in South
[Music]
Korea it's Wednesday February 26th this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Jonah Green in New York and I'm Tara
Oaks in
Liverpool just days after US president
Donald Trump was exchanging verbal blows
with Ukraine's President Vladimir
zalinski the countries appear to have
agreed a minerals deal sources tell
Reuters the draft agreement does not
specify any US security guarantees or a
continued flow of weapons but it does
say the United States wants you Ukraine
to be free Sovereign and secure Mike
colet White is editor at large for
Ukraine and has been looking at the
details well the deal is to jointly
develop between Ukraine and the United
States Ukraine's reserves of rare Earths
and critical minerals which are used in
high-tech devices and are sort of key to
the Future as well as oil and gas
according to the details we've heard
from sources about there will be a fund
established into which Ukraine would
contribute 50% of the proceed
from exploiting state-owned resources
until those payments reach $500 billion
and in return the US says it will
provide long-term Financial commitments
to a in quotes stable and prosperous
Ukraine what's not in there is the most
interesting thing and that is there is
no mention of American Security
guarantees which is what Ukraine had
originally wanted from this deal how has
it gone from the war of words to this
deal in a matter of days well I think
that the agreement the ukrainians if
they were being honest would say Falls
far short of what they would like but
the opening gambits in these
negotiations over the last couple of
weeks were deeply worrying to K I think
the thinking in Kev and for President
Vladimir zilinski is look we have to
engage we have to show Trump that we
mean business and I think this is
probably their only way of doing that
frankly some of these minerals are
currently in Russian held Ukraine how
does that play out if you look at the
maps there are sizable deposits of
critical minerals and rare Earths both
in
Ukraine controlled areas I.E the 80% of
ukra that Ukraine still controls and
also in Russian controlled areas and
interestingly Russian President Vladimir
Putin has said this week that uh Russia
would be willing to work with America on
exploiting their era Earths so this is a
very transactional phase and some of
those rare Earths he probably sees as
those in occupied Ukraine you can find
out all about critical minerals in last
week's episode of econ world it's out
now wherever you get your
podcasts Israeli war planes have
targeted the Syrian town of kis 12 M
south of the capital as well as the
southern province of
d h says it has resolved a standoff over
the release of more than 600
Palestinians the prisoners will now be
handed over simultaneously with the
bodies of killed Israeli hostages for
its part Israel says it is considering
extending the first phase of the Gaza
ceasefire as it seeks to bring home the
remaining 63
hostages the White House says it will
now pick which media organizations can
be in the Press pool that covers the
president the move follows the decision
to Bar the Associated Press because it
is declined to refer to the Gulf of
Mexico as a gulf of America for decades
the White House correspondence
Association has coordinated the pool
rotation on behalf of the
public 21 workers have resigned from
Elon musk's Department of government
efficiency in protest over his wide
ranging cuts the White House says musk
will be present at president Donald
Trump's first official cabinet meeting
later
today Chile's government has announced a
state of emergency after a massive power
outage plunged the capital Santiago Into
Darkness it also knocked out electricity
to Major copper mines in the north of a
country the US House of Representatives
has advanced president Donald Trump's
tax cut and Border agenda Republican
leaders spent hours persuading holdouts
to back the move which is a first step
to extending Trump's 2017 tax cuts later
this year the house budget seeks $2
trillion in spending cuts over 10 years
to pay for Trump's agenda still fissures
within the GOP might make it difficult
to fully enact his policies even with
Republicans in the majority David Morgan
covers Congress one faction in involves
Republicans who might be described as
being more moderate and they have been
concerned about pushed by Republicans on
the right for deep spending cuts that
have been aimed at
Medicade and food assistance programs
for the poor and pill grants for
students now speaker Johnson and his
leadership team have assured them that
beneficiaries of of Medicaid which is a
health insurance program for the poor
will not lose their benefits if they're
US citizens there is another group that
thinks there should be deeper spending
cuts passing this budget resolution is
just the first deadline facing lawmakers
in the coming months they'll also need
to enact spending legislation to prevent
a partial government shutdown when
current funding expires in 3 weeks
and later in the year they'll need to
act on the federal government's
self-imposed debt sealing or risk
triggering catastrophic default so as
this budget uncertainty plagues Congress
concern about Trump's other policies is
sending consumer confidence plummeting
to an 8-month
[Music]
low us markets tumbled yesterday
pressured by this wavering confidence in
the US economy our US economic editor
Dan Burns is here to tell us more about
what is driving that uncertainty well in
a word it's it's tariffs and trade uh we
saw a measure of consumer confidence
from the conference board Dro by the
most single month in about three and a
half years and the conference board
reported that unsolicited mentions of
tariffs and trade policy and uncertainty
around that were the highest um in the
survey since
2019 and lo and behold that's when Trump
was in office the first time and given
the blitz of tariff threats that have
come from him since he took office on
January 20th it's not all that
surprising that it's really beginning to
resonate with consumers who expect that
to result in higher prices for the
things they consume and potentially a
threat to their job so is this one of
those instances where consumer concern
about inflation could actually become
a self-fulfilling prophecy in some way
well that's the worry economists have
and let's be clear it's not just uh
consumers who are voicing concern here
some national surveys have pointed to
deteriorating sentiment around business
conditions expectations that prices are
going to go higher for the inputs
businesses need to produce the good or
service that they put out and uh some
are talking about you know having to
raise prices further as a result and if
you're gripping a cup or a mug or like
me some kind of a trough of coffee to
perk you up during our morning pod savor
it while you can the price of coffee
beans on wholesale markets is soaring
and could soon filter through to
Consumers you can hear all about this
bitter news on this week's episode of
econ World podcast which is out later
[Music]
today a round of applause
and a check for
$70,000 from the company's CEO not a bad
baby bonus and in South Korea it's the
kind of policy push that seems to be
encouraging Parenthood the country with
the lowest birth rate in the world has
seen it rise for the first time in
almost a decade to our modest
0.75 efforts to incentivize companies
and Koreans to embrace Parenthood are
paying off
for 35-year-old Nam hyen Jin is
worked playing with her 5-month-old
second daughter she says South Korea was
a different place when she had her first
and she credits her employer for
providing huge help after cashing her
childbirth bonus the 0.75 number is
still well below what's needed to steady
the population and the government has
plans to spend over $13 billion this
year to try and lift the country out of
its demog graic
[Music]
crisis our recommended read today takes
us to Moscow in a cold December morning
in
1975 and the extraordinary efforts to
smuggle a Nobel Peace Prize acceptance
speech to Oslo the writer Soviet
dissident and father of the Soviet
hydrogen bomb Andre sakarov there's a
link to find out more about about the
elaborate plot in the Pod description
for more on any of the stories from
today check out reuters.com or the
Reuters app don't forget to follow us on
your favorite podcast player we'll be
back tomorrow with our daily headline
show
