today Vladimir Putin offers qualified
support for a Ukraine ceasefire saying
the proposal needs serious
reworking how tariffs might impact your
Friday night cap and and Donna T verace
steps down what's next for the iconic
Italian
brand it's Friday March 14th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Jonah Green in New York and I'm Tor
Oaks in
Liverpool President Vladimir Putin says
that Russia supports a US proposal for a
ceasefire in Ukraine in principle but he
added a list of Demands to make it work
on Thursday US president Donald Trump's
special Envoy met with Russian officials
in Moscow on the proposal which keev has
already agreed to now we're going to see
whether or not Russia's there and if
they're not it'll be a very
disappointing moment for the world yeah
Don dery is our US foreign policy editor
so don do we know what Putin wants here
and what message he's sending because
it's not a no but it's a very qualified
maybe that's right but you know the
devil is in the details here and those
include some things that are going to be
very hard for the US or the West to
accept those include things such as not
ever allowing Ukraine to enter NATO not
allowing any foreign troops on Ukrainian
soil um and a recognition from the
United States of Russia's control of the
territories in Ukraine that it is
already seized Ukraine will worry that
Putin is effectively trying to stall and
buy some time you know his troops have
made some progress uh in recent weeks on
the battlefield and Ukrainian troops are
really on the defensive so the Trump
Administration has taken a less hostile
approach when it comes to Russia and in
fact a lot of the Diplomatic pressure
here seems to be on Ukraine and now we
have this response from Putin is this
tactic paying off well we'll really have
to see right I Putin is willing to talk
that's a success but the real success
will be whether Putin is willing to stop
fighting and on what terms Putin is a
past master of delaying things and um
ultimately getting what he wants
I should add however there are some
reports out that the US has actually put
some more restrictions on Russia's oil
gas and banking sectors which could be a
signal right it could be a signal that
the US is willing to make economic
conditions tougher for Putin as part of
negotiations and so what happens now so
from here we'll have to see how the next
stage of negotiations go between Russia
and the US and in particular when do we
see this call that's supposed to happen
between Putin and Trump and what kinds
of commitments does Russia appear to be
ready to
[Music]
make more than half of Americans
including one in four Republicans think
president Donald Trump is too closely
aligned with Russia that's according to
a Reuters ipsos poll which also found
little appetite among Americans for
Trump's expansionist agenda as the
president talks of acquiring Greenland
Canada and the Panama
Canal a California federal judge has
ordered the Trump Administration to
reinstate thousands of recently hired
employees who lost their jobs as part of
the president's Purge of the federal
Workforce it's the most significant blow
yet to the effort by Trump and Elon Musk
to drastically shrink the federal
bureaucracy the arrest of Palestinian
activist Mahmud Khalil has seen hundreds
protesting inside the lobby of a Trump
Tower in New York the protest was
organized by the Jewish voice for peace
the Columbia student is in Immigration
custody in
Louisiana Armenia and aeran have agreed
to a peace treaty to end nearly 40 Years
of conflict before a deal is signed
aeran says Armenia must remove any
implicit claims to the negoro carabat
region from its
[Music]
Constitution president Trump is
threatening to slap a 2% tariff on wine
Cognac and other alcohol imports from
Europe I really believe that this is a
Pock game they playing pocker and I
think they need to to act like grown-ups
sit at the table
and uh make things Fair Mario duta is
the owner manager of Jack Brer a wine
shop and French restaurant in New York
City he says the uncertainty is already
hitting business with 60% of his imports
from bordeau to burgundy coming from the
EU we cannot buy inventory based on
speculations Distributors the people
that are selling us the product they
don't know how much inventory to hold on
to because no nobody wants to pay two
three times more than what they would be
paying today in a month from now Trump's
threat comes in response to a European
union plan to impose tariffs on American
whiskey and other products next month
which itself is a response to Trump's
25% tariffs on steel and aluminum
Imports and Tesla is warning that it and
other top American exporters are left
exposed to these retaliatory tariffs
it's a notable concern from Trump Al
Elon musk's company it's not clear who
wrote the warning letter it was unsigned
on company letterhead Tesla has not
responded to a request for
[Music]
comment top US Senate Democrat Chuck
Schumer says he will vote to advance a
republican stop Gap funding bill
signaling that his party would provide
the votes to avert a government shutdown
Schumer said it wasn't an easy decision
supporting a bill that was written only
by Republicans and has drawn Fierce
attacks from Democrats while the CR bill
is very
bad the potential for a shutdown has
consequences for America that are much
much
worse relief over the likely avoidance
of a US Government shutdown is giving
stock futures a lift but overall it's
been a brutal week for us equities the
S&P 500 has tumbled to its first 10%
correction in nearly 2 years due to
concerns about Trump's trade War but us
investors have only had a few weeks of
pain try five straight months of losses
with no end in sight that's what
investors in India are
enduring KL crims is here to explain
what's going on so this is India's
longest Equity slump in nearly three
decades with a trillion dollars wied off
stock values weak corporate earnings and
uncertainty over what a global trade War
means for India is what's driving it and
it's causing real pain for retail
investors many of them are young and
they piled into equities when stocks
were roaring ahead and because they're
now suffering big losses that means of
course that they're spending less which
is bad for the economy and for the stock
market so analysts reckon there's
probably more pain to
come after nearly 30 years Donatella
is stepping down as creative director
for the Vace
[Music]
brand she's dressed many Hollywood
celebrities over the years you might
recall that silk green chiffon dress
that Jennifer Lopez wore to the Grammys
in 2000 she took over the brand after
her brother Jenny vasachi was killed
outside his home in Miami in
1997 her departure is Fanning talk of a
sale of Bachi to rival Italian fashion
house Prada
[Music]
Alisa anzolin has been following the
developments in Milan everyone
identifies their with Donatella she
brought the brand like a very like bold
and sexy aesthetic and uh she has always
claimed that she wanted to make women
feel empowered so that women can express
themselves and feel strong and uh
confident wearing those clothes we still
don't know if Prada will buy verace at
the end for Prada is a major shift
Versace is very different from Prada
from one side this is one of the element
that are the strength of such a
[Music]
deal and before we leave you a
recommended listen Canadians are angry
they're angry about Trump's rhetoric
suggesting the country could be the US's
51st state and they're angry about his
escalating trade war and tariffs plus a
new leader is taking the helm at this
critical moment for Canada we dig into
all of that on our weekend special of
Reuters World News podcast it drops on
Saturday morning for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app don't forget to
follow us on your favorite podcast
player we'll be back on Monday with our
daily headline show
