[Music]
more than a billion people worldwide are
obese and there were 5 million obesity
related deaths in 2019 according to the
World Health
Organization the condition is becoming
more common almost everywhere in the
world which is why there's so much hype
around drugs like wovi and
OIC what started as stories about
Hollywood Wast lines has become a global
phenomenon
on this weekend episode of roers world
news the impact of these game-changing
drugs a few years on our health
reporters weigh in on how people are
using them today and how can they afford
to stay on them are they as
transformational as they were promised
and how might the next us Administration
handle them I'm your host Jonah green
[Music]
joining us now are uh Michelle gersberg
our Global Health editor and Patrick
wingrove our us Pharmaceuticals
correspondent hey guys thanks for
talking today hey jonath good to talk to
you and so when these drugs first hit
the market they were for diabetes then
they got co-opted as as this miracle
weight loss cure about two years ago and
suddenly all of Hollywood was on it now
a few years on how are these drugs being
used now I I love that you use the word
miracle because I think it's true I
think they came into the world and
people saw them as a potential Silver
Bullet for an obesity epidemic that has
only been worsening and causing you know
all kinds of complications and and and
even death in many people around the
globe and so these drugs work very well
they're powerful for the first time
there is a pharmaceutical that can
really help people lose weight in a
significant way I think we're at a point
where
there is a greater understanding of how
these drugs need to fit into a treatment
plan a way of addressing obesity that
they're not a silver bullet because we
are seeing increasing evidence that they
can drive up costs with their current
prices we're seeing that people
discontinue using them for many
different reasons and we're also
awaiting newer versions of these drugs
that may work better for some people may
be more convenient and ultimately May
cost less there are two main drugs out
on the market now stide and tepati and
those are marketed in different ways so
stite is owned by Nova Nordisk it's
marketed as OIC and that's been out in
the markets in 2017 and that's for
diabetes and and then as would go for
weight loss Eli Lily has tepati that's
marketed as mararo for diabetes and as
zet Bound for weight loss but they are
very similar drugs between the two and
and the same drug between those
different indications as Michelle
mentioned these are very expensive and I
want to kind of get into how people pay
for that but you know just just
generally how mainstream is this is this
for a select view or do we see these
class of drugs being used all across the
country all across the world in
different income brackets I mean I think
eventually yes right now they're
incredibly expensive so the list price
for these drugs is more than ,000 a
month I don't think a lot of people
actually pay that if they have insurance
they'll have some kind of co-pay with
the drug and it could be considerably
cheaper for a lot of people it's still
prohibitively expensive I think that
will change over time as Michelle
mentioned before there are new weight
loss drugs coming out within the next
few years and once the market has enough
of them that may drive the price down
significantly enough that these drugs
could become as used as
statins for example so it will take time
but eventually yes it will be ubiquitous
so for a normal person in the US who
wants to start these drugs do they
expect it will be covered or or is it
more common that they're paying $1,200 a
month I mean there are different
programs in place that would or might
prevent them from paying 1,200 a month I
think that's probably an unreasonable
price for anyone to pay right but uh you
know Eli Lily has for example its own
program that can bring the cost down to
I think around $650 for people that
aren't insured for these drugs a month
which is still a lot but it's you know
not the same as as when you're paying in
the thousands so there's something like
50% of coverage in the United States um
Medicaid is covering quite a lot of
these drugs as as well Medicare is
covering them to an extent in the sense
that it will cover them for the diabetes
indication and and may cover them off
label for weight loss or may cover them
for a different indication like heart
disease Medicaid coverage across the
United States is still limited a little
bit more than a dozen states allow for
access to these drugs but it also
changes that picture we know Equity is a
big question around this and many
doctors have been concerned about that
about entire populations not being able
to have access to the drugs where
Medicaid covers it that changes the
picture and it's very interesting to see
how that's going to develop in the next
us Administration I mean that was going
my followup do we have any sense of what
might happen in the future either
because it was already in the works from
the Biden Administration or let's say
Robert F Kennedy Jr is confirmed to be
Secretary of Health and Human Services I
think he's been on record saying he's
not a fan of these drugs so do we do we
have any idea what might happen under
Trump Biden has introduced a new rule
requiring Medicare and Medicaid to cover
these weight loss drugs I understand
it's it's fairly standard for an
incoming president to essentially put on
pause all of the orders that were put in
place by the previous president so that
yeah there's this big question about
whether he's actually going to scrap
this rule which is supposedly incredibly
popular across the entire United States
amongst Democrats and Republicans yeah
and we're trying to read the tea leaves
on this right as as as are many other
people following this Robert F Kennedy
Jr has made statements casting doubt on
the value of weight loss drugs he does
have this view of you know the
importance of making America healthy
again right that's kind of a a slogan
that he's been using and as part of that
his thinking has been that we have to
improve the way Americans eat getting
away from processed foods eating
healthier foods and that that will solve
obesity it seems like more recently he's
made statements that have softened that
line a bit understanding that the drugs
may have a place as part of a Continuum
of dealing with obesity and on the flip
side we also have someone like Elon Musk
who is a very influ playing an
influential role in the incoming Trump
Administration who recently said we
should make these available at low cost
to everybody and so we come it brings us
right back to that cost question of what
kind of pressure is going to be brought
to bear on Nova Nordisk and Eli Lily and
anyone else coming into this Market to
begin to offer their drugs at a lower
price so that more people can get get
them has there been any noticeable
impact on health care costs the the
health care cost issue is tricky because
the early promise of the drugs was that
by treating obesity you will help reduce
the incidence of diabetes or heart
disease or reduce the risk and reduce
hospitalizations and other major you
know Big Ticket health care costs and so
far what we've been seeing from the data
is that there isn't a cost savings
that's happening because the drugs are
expensive the use of them overall are
driving up costs you know we're looking
at analyses of medical claims data that
show that the average sort of cost per
person of Health Care in a universe of
people who are using these drugs goes up
within the first couple of years it's
possible that over time the cost savings
start to come into the system but at the
moment the evidence that we're seeing is
that it drives the cost up and also
partly because something like 75% of
people stop using the drug after a
period of time so what you do is you see
people try it and there's a lot of cost
put into that a lot of money spent to
try the drug and then they stop using it
so the cost issue is not yet fully
settled are these drugs meant to be used
long term forever or is there a
rethinking about how how people should
interact with them I think as Michelle
said earlier I think a lot of people are
taking these drugs for a period of time
and then eventually coming off them
there were well there was some talk
about how if people did stop taking the
drugs they would just put the weight
back on so they would need to take them
indefinitely in effect unless they made
some quite serious changes to their to
their Lifestyles then perhaps they could
come off the drug and and it they
wouldn't immediately gain the weight
back but if they're not going to do that
then yeah theoretically they have to be
on the drug for long
time are there still supply shortages uh
which that because I know that was also
a big story when this drug became
co-opted for some off label uses in the
early days but are people still able to
get these drugs if they need them it
feels like there should be a simple
answer to that question and it is
actually turning out to be quite complex
Patrick do you agree I absolutely agree
I think shortages in the past when it
came to drugs it was a pretty black and
white matter right and now for these
drugs it really isn't you know Eli
Lily's drugs are supposedly in good
Supply now but there's question about
whether that that's actually the case
when the drug came out of shortage one
of the representative groups of
compounding phes some of the big ones
that are regulated by the FDA sued the
FDA and said No it's it's still in
shortage and the FDA has come back and
said okay we're going to review the data
and come back in you and you can keep
compounding it in the meantime and what
is and what is compounding so US law
allows there's a kind of a group of
pharmacies that can acquire the active
ingredient of a drug even if it's still
on under patent protection if it's in
shortage and they can make a version of
that drug and distribute it throughout
the United States and that's what you're
seeing being made available in many
online pharmacies places like him and
hers even through Weight Watchers a
compounded version of semaglutide for
example and it's being sold for a lot
less money than the brand name drug and
people are are using it but there are
also a lot of concerns about where
pharmacies are sourcing their
ingredients how rigorous are their
manufacturing practices to ensure that
the drug that people are buying is
really the drug it's the same as the
brand name right it's as effective and
is it as safe also there is it creates
an opening unfortunately
for counterfeit versions there are two
sides to this so there is a very
legitimate compounded market right so
with pharmacies that are regulated
either by State Pharmacy boards or the
FDA or both and they're selling
compounded versions of the drugs and
those are sourced according to these
companies from FDA regulated
manufacturers and other suppliers right
so that shouldn't be conflated with the
people that set up a website and sell
any old thing in a vial and call it
compound as some magde right so it's
that's really no different then where
someone takes an insulin pen and puts an
OIC label on and says it's OIC it's the
same thing it it's legitimizing or or
taking advantage of a legitimate Market
to sell something fake right like a bag
you buy in the street you know it's it's
still a bag it might not be a Louis
Vuitton bag not that I've done it before
but yeah exactly a little bit like you
know we live in New York you know so
exactly a little bit like that the only
the big difference obviously being that
if you buy a counterfeit bag the worst
thing that can happen is it breaks in a
couple of weeks and you maybe you lose
some of your shopping and if you take a
counterfeit drug you take your life into
your own hands it can be very
dangerous if we take a step back what
what have been some of the biggest
impacts on the more societal level of
these drugs there are many layers of
impact right one of the big consequences
of this is it has created a whole new
dialogue around obesity and what could
be done about it and uh and we did see
that in some recent reporting in talking
to doctors who say we have patients who
are obese who for years avoided the
doctor they felt shamed they felt
helpless because nothing could be done
you know they had tried all kinds of
ways to lose weight and deal with the
the health consequences that can come
with excess weight and you know nothing
worked and so they had given up and they
also felt like every time they went to
their doctor they were being judged or
harassed and now that feels different
right because there is something that
they can try and it can help them and
then their doctor says oh well look you
haven't had you know um sort of a full
work off like a cholesterol test or an
A1C test in a long time let's check you
out and oh we find out that actually you
do have diabetes or pre-diabetes or you
have sleep apnea and we should also
treat that and so it starts to affect
the total health care of a person in a
way that was perhaps closed to people
before and then the conversation around
that has also changed about Fitness and
about diet and nutrition really we
understand that even with these drugs
you need to eat differently you need to
eat healthier foods you need to ensure
that you're getting enough protein and
enough balance in your diet many people
cribe that their cravings for foods that
are ultr processed high in fat and
sodium and sugar start to decrease
dramatically they're not interested in
that food anymore and so that creates a
new conversation around how to eat and
also the kind of exercise that you need
to ensure that while you're losing
weight you still have muscle that you're
not losing muscle mass and it's very
interesting to see that and some people
may stop taking the drug and try to just
keep going with diet an exercise regimen
other people might do it alongside use
of The Drug In some cases people find
they can't tolerate the drug but they
might change how they eat and how they
move and so that is really instructive
right at the level of of Education if
there's a segment of the population who
has now been on this drug and it has
changed their Cravings you know that
they crave less sugar less processed
food has that created this kind of
Health Awareness that companies might
have to respond to I think we're already
seeing food companies respond to this uh
and highlighting products that are high
in protein or even introducing new
products that are helping promote muscle
mass as well as foods that are
specifically being described as glp1
friendly you know that they they're
complimentary in a dietary sense to the
treatments that people may be taking and
I think the question though that remains
for the food companies is whether or not
the marketplace will be still as
interested in these foods that are
essentially processed foods or is the
shift that that might take place
favoring foods that are not processed
right or less processed because that's
what people want to
eat again we don't have big picture data
we hear it anecdotally of some people
saying you know I used to like you know
these chips or these snacks and now I I
don't even feel like I want them anymore
you hear about people with other
diseases or other symptoms that are not
diabetes or obesity and their doctors
say hey why don't you try OIC and it it
seems to have a lot of off label uses um
what do we know about that well the
drugs are being tested against a number
of different kinds of diseases and
illnesses and we've started to get data
for example Eli Lily has data showing
that you know it's drug can help with
sleep apnea and there are studies about
its ability to curb you know impulses
for alcohol addiction and so that part
of it remains fascinating there's
something about the pathway through
which this these drugs work that affects
all kinds of human behaviors and also
you know elements of human health
absolutely it's going to be very
interesting to see if this is more of a
Cravings drug than a weight
struck thanks again to Michelle and
Patrick roers world news is produced by
Gail Isa Sharon Rish Garson David
Spencer Christopher walljasper and me
Jonah green our senior producers are
Carmel crims and Tara Oaks our executive
producer is Leela dzer sound design and
musical composition by Josh summer
we'll be back on Monday with our daily
headline show to make sure you never
miss an episode click follow on your
preferred podcast player or download the
Reuters app
[Music]
