today a judge temporarily blocks Trump's
order to end Birthright citizenship
Trump's Purge of the federal Workforce
Begins the icc's prosecutor seeks arrest
warrants for Taliban leaders over their
treatment of women and girls and will
this be the year Netflix finally gets an
Oscar for best
picture it's Friday January 24th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Christopher walljasper in Chicago
and I'm Torah Oaks in the
bookle a federal judge in Seattle has
blocked president Donald Trump's
executive order curtailing the right to
automatic Birthright citizenship in the
United States calling it blatantly
unconstitutional Trump heads to disaster
hit North Carolina and Angeles today
it's his first trip since taking office
and it's one which could inflame
partisan tensions over recovery efforts
in Western North Carolina still
recovering from September's hurricane
Helen Pete heith is likely to be
confirmed by the Senate later today as
Trump's Secretary of Defense the US
Senate has narrowly advanced heg after
51 of 100 Senators voted to end debate
on his nomination despite new
allegations about his personal
conduct a British teenager who killed
three young girls at a dance event has
been jailed for at least 52 years Axel
Ruda Cabana admitted killing the girls
in the northern English town of
Southport an atrocity that shocked
Britain and was followed by days of
Nationwide rioting I traveled back to
Southport which is my hometown in the
wake of the killings last year to speak
to The Grieving population there's a
link to a special episode in our pod
description and Novak doovic has pledged
to continue his hunt for a record 25th
Grand Slam title even as he had to drop
out the Australian Open semi-final due
to a muscle injury it's his second setb
at the grand slams in a year after
pulling out of the French Open with a
knee
problem the bank of Japan has raised
interest rates to their highest since
the 2008 Global financial crisis
bringing up the short-term policy rate
25 basis points to 0.5% from
0.25% the boj has also revised up its
inflation forecasts underscoring its
confidence that Rising wages will keep
inflation stable around its 2% Target
it's their first rate hike since July
last year and comes days after the
inauguration of US president Donald
Trump who is likely to keep Global
policy makers Vigilant in the face of
his tariff threats and if you're a
global economics buff or a budding one
check out this week's episode of Ecom
World podcast with Carl kin this week
she turns her laser-like Focus to the UK
and we hear from British Finance
Minister Rachel Reeves as she pushes a
growth agenda at the world economic
Forum in Davos will um you know taking
out those barriers that have stopped
businesses investing and growing in in
Britain there's a link to the episode in
the Pod description and you can find the
show wherever you get your
[Music]
podcasts now Donald Trump has made no
secret of his disdain for the so-called
deep State and now his administration is
moving with stunning speed to begin
firing or sidelining hundreds of federal
workers an executive order signed on his
first day in office would allow his
administration to fire out will tens of
thousands of Korea civil servants who've
historically enjoyed job protections
that insulate them from political
partisanship the order known as schedule
F would permit Trump to fill those
positions with handpicked
loyalists our politics reporter Tim Reed
has been following the purge as it
happens so Tim government agencies and
unions have spent months preparing for
this how are they reacting the speed at
which Trump is has moved and the scope
of his executive orders has stunned even
people who've been trying to prepare for
this I spoke to One Union Leader he met
with some federal workers and he said it
was like stunned silence everyone is
shocked at how ferocious and quick the
actions taken against government
departments has been in just three or
four days of trump being in office and
help me understand how does this
executive order make it easier for him
to fire all these workers so there's one
specific order that
reclassifies career civil servants in a
way that robs them of all their
employment protections and means that
they can be fired at will there's
already a lawsuit challenging this order
but if that lawsuit fails we could
literally see hundreds of thousands of
government workers being fired according
to government experts and Union
officials the White House did not
respond to a request for comment about
government worker
concerns the international criminal
court prosecutor has applied for arrest
warrants for two Taliban leaders in
Afghanistan accusing them of the
persecution of women and girls since
2021 when Taliban forces captured caral
it's the first time the ICC has publicly
saw warrants in their 18-year
investigation into potential war crimes
in Afghanistan and these ones are for
the country's Supreme spiritual leader
and its chief justice Taliban leaders
have not yet commented Stephanie fonden
in the ha is here to unpack what this
means it's a case that's been lingering
at the court for many many years and so
it's a really big move not only for
finally getting some kind of
accountability possibly in Afghanistan
but also very much looking at
discrimination against women girls and
really having this focus on this gender
persecution that they are trying to
litigate so the accusation of gender
persecution what in concrete terms does
that mean what it technically means is
just that they accuse the Taliban of
going after putting restrictions and
committing crimes against women and
girls simply for the reason that they
are women and girls and so simply on the
basis of their gender but this is the
first real case where we see an arrest
warrants that is sought solely for this
gender persecution it's not mentioning
any other crime so this is really part
also of a strategy of the icc's office
of the prosecutor who has said many
times that he wants to specifically go
after crimes committed against um the
most vulnerable in society mainly women
and
children well let's not keep people
waiting any longer let's go are we ready
for some nominees let's go the Oscar
Nomine are out and the Spanish language
musical Amelia Perez is leading the pack
with 13 nominations the brutalist and
wicked picked up 10 nods each Lisa
Richwine is our entertainment reporter
so were there any snubs or surprises
this year two of the biggest snubs that
people are talking about are Nicole
Kidman for a movie called baby girl that
many thought would be nominated and
Angelina Jolie she played the opera
singer Maria Callis in a movie and many
experts thought she would also be on the
list but they were both left off and has
Netflix ever won a best picture Netflix
has never one best picture they've had
some contenders in the past one was Roma
one was the Irishman and you know some
voters still have kind of a negative
view toward Netflix in the film business
because it's a streaming service and
they only release movies and theaters
for a very limited time so they can
qualify for awards they prefer to let
their subscribers watch at home and many
people in the film business still think
the proper way to see a movie is in a
theater on a big screen so many awards
experts think that has hurt Netflix
along the way so here here we go there's
another shot with Emilia Perez and we'll
see if Netflix can finally pull it off
and so this year's awards are still
going on as scheduled despite the
wildfires so it's still hanging over the
city this tragedy and the award season
it's certainly put a damper on things
this is usually the big time of
celebration in Hollywood but the Oscars
they are going on there are you know
debates about whether they should still
have a show and they the organizers have
said they really want to celebrate film
making and the resilience of Hollywood
and show the world that the industry is
back that Los Angeles is back that the
the city and the industry have been
through many things but they uh will
rebound from this devastation
[Music]
and for today's recommended read a
Canadian fashion statement Donald
Trump's tariff threats and suggestions
that Canada could become the 51st state
are paying off for one entrepreneur
who's fashioned a hat emblazened with
the message Canada is not for sale tens
of thousands of the hats have been sold
after first being spotted on the head of
the Ontario premere during a meeting
with prime minister Justin Trudeau
there's a link to a story in the pop
description for more on any of today's
stories check out reuters.com or the
Reuters app don't forget to follow us on
your favorite podcast player we'll be
back on Monday with our daily headline
show
