today Harris makes her closing arguments
at the sight of Trump's January 6th
rally torrential Reigns cause deadly
flush floods in Spain Canada alleges
that a top Indian Minister was behind
the plot to Target seek separatists and
the battle over Americans campaign yard
signs it's Wednesday October 30th this
is reuter's world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tara Oaks in Liverpool and I'm
Christopher walljasper in
Chicago on day one if elected Donald
Trump would walk into that office with
an enemy's list when elected I will walk
in with a to-do list speaking in front
of tens of thousands on the National
Mall kamla Harris warned supporters that
Donald Trump was seeking absolute power
in his bid for a second term this is
someone who is
unstable obsessed with Revenge consumed
with grievance and out for unchecked
power choosing the same spot Trump
addressed his supporters on January 6th
Harris also sought to strike a contrast
in tone from Trump's recent rally at
Madison Square Garden Donald Trump has
spent a decade trying to keep the
American people divided and afraid of
each other that is who he is but America
I am here tonight to say that is not who
we are White House correspondent Jeff
Mason was there and sent us this
dispatch right after Harris finished
speaking lots of crowd noise behind me
because according to a campaign official
there were more than 75,000 people here
that's really what the campaign wanted
was a big group and a big night for the
vice president to make her closing
argument and that's largely what she did
she Drew contrasts again as she's been
doing for months now between herself and
former president Donald Trump she made a
point of saying that it was now time to
turn the page on the division and Chaos
that she says he would present and what
would come with a second Trump
presidency she talked about her policy
proposals she also acknowledged that
some voters still didn't really know who
she was and didn't know a lot about her
and so she used this opportunity 7 Days
roughly before the election to
reintroduce herself one last
time a reuter's ipsos poem published on
Tuesday shows Harris's lead over Trump
has dwindled in the final stretch of the
presidential contest with the Democrat
ahead by a single percentage point over
the Republican as Harris spoke in
Washington Trump visited a heavily
Hispanic city in Pennsylvania 2 days
after comedians comments about Puerto
Rico Drew outrage at Trump's large New
York rally nobody loves our Latino
community and our Puerto Rican Community
more than I do the US Census Bureau says
Puerto Ricans are the largest Hispanic
group in Pennsylvania a state that holds
the highest number of electoral College
votes of the seven Battleground States
expected to decide the
election the fight for votes is Raging
not just in Battleground States but also
across the front Lawns of America many
voters have recently reported their
campaign lawn signs being stolen and
they're going to Great Lengths to fight
back tired of her kamla Harris signs
disappearing from her Springfield
Missouri front yard Laura mccal taped a
tracking device to one to see where it
might end up that led her to a blue Kia
sedan in a nearby town where a young man
admitted he had stolen her sign along
with dozens of others according to a
video she shot yeah and I mean like uh
are you just looking to have it back I'm
sorry this is funny why don't you just
take them all here you go liberals well
go it's more than that actually no it's
not it's so stupid just go vote
political reporter Andy Sullivan's been
reporting on these lawn sign Wars from
Washington I think it's one of those
election year irritants like those spam
fundraising text messages you get or the
attack ads you see on TV all the time
the people I talked to said not not only
is it theft you're stealing something
from somebody but also you're
suppressing their free speech and to
certain people it can feel a bit like
voter intimidation how are these
frustrated folks fighting back the most
ingenious way to prevent this from
happening or to at least catch the thief
is the use of Apple Air tags I spoke to
two people who did that they had their
signs taken then they put one of those
little tracking devices on there and
when their sign got stolen both of them
said well they could see a travel around
in a car as the car went to a house and
so then they can call the police and the
police can show up and say did you take
this is this not yours whereas otherwise
it can be very difficult to prosecute
police are not going to spend a lot of
time on something like this when the
theft is an item that typically costs 20
bucks or so and then on top of that
there's the more low Tech Solutions
people say a common way to protect your
signs just to smear them with Vaseline
and glitter that way the thief touches
the sign get glitter and goop all over
their hands and evidently it's very hard
to get glitter off your hands what sort
of penalties are there for a crime like
this this is theft and the penalties for
theft vary from state to state and
locality to locality there's one person
in Pennsylvania I wrote about who is
being charged with several crimes he
could face up to 12 years in prison and
fines of up to
$55,000 often the penalties are a lot
less than that but just the sheer hassle
of being charged with a crime and having
to go to court and hire a lawyer
certainly would not make anybody
[Music]
happy the US Supreme Court has denied a
bid by Robert F Kennedy Jr to be removed
from the ballot in Wisconsin and
Michigan in the presidential race
Kennedy has since dropped out of the
race and Endor
Trump Steve Bannon has been released
from prison the long time Trump Ally had
been serving a 4-month sentence for
contempt of congress in 2022 Bannon was
convicted for defying a subpoena from
the house committee investigating the
January 6th
attack and in Spain at least 51 people
have been killed in flash flood sweeping
the Eastern region of Valencia one local
resident Antonio Carmona saying the
storm Swept Away horses and dogs in the
fate of a neighbor who got trapped in a
car is still unknown let
and if you're interested in the impact
of climate change and the financial
markets check out the latest episode of
econ World podcast later today where
Chris will be talking all about carbon
trading Chinese and Hong Kong stocks
dipped on Wednesday with investors
cautious ahead of the US election while
also awaiting top lead leadership
meetings next week that could reveal
fiscal stimulus details China is
considering approving the issuance of
over 10 trillion Yuan that's $ 1.4
trillion us next week in extra debt over
the next few years to revive its fragile
economy the fiscal package is expected
to be further bolstered if Donald Trump
wins the US election the European
Union's decision to significantly
increase tariffs on Chinese built
electric vehicles also weighed on
sentiment and dragged down EV
stocks Canada says India's minister of
Home Affairs Amit sha is behind the
plots to Target seek separatists in
Canada it's the latest accusation in a
ratcheting up of diplomatic tensions
between the two Nations dating back to
the 2023 murder of seek separatist
leader Hardeep sing Nar on Canadian soil
our political reporter in New Delhi
Christian Kosik is here to explain how
this new accusation could impact already
tense relations so Christian tell me
about Amit sha so Amit sha in a nutshell
is the second most powerful politician
in India after prime minister Narendra
Modi Amit sha has been modi's closest
political Ali for the last 25 years at
least since when both Amit sha and Modi
have been in electoral Politics the two
go back to their days when they were
governing the state of Gujarat and they
have been together since and as the
country's home minister he heads over
all internal security issues that
includes the federal police that
includes some of the intelligence
agencies as well so he has immense State
Authority and state power as well at his
disposal so how is India reacting to
this accusation the reaction has been
quite muted till now we have reached out
to Amit Sha's office and there has not
been any reaction so I think for now
India is studying what to say but the
acquisition is definitely huge because
this is as close as Canada can link the
targeted attacks on seek dissidents on
its soil to Prime Minister Modi almost
directly because he is the most powerful
person after Modi how could this affect
already tense relations between India
and Canada so of course the Saga has
been going on for over a year and India
has denied all these allegations but the
tensions have been going up through this
entire process and after both sides
expelled each other's diplomats over the
last few weeks it was kind of a
stalemate that both sides were now
waiting if the other side will take any
action but now after Canada has taken
Amit sha it is expected that there will
be some political or diplomatic reaction
from
[Music]
India today's recommended read is a
special report on how the Intel CEO Pat
Ginger fumbled the Revival of an
American icon you can read more about
some of his missteps in a link in
today's pod description for more on any
of today's stories head to Reuters
or check out the Reuters app to never
miss an episode follow us on your
favorite podcast player we'll be back
tomorrow with our daily headline show
