today wildfires rage in Los Angeles
forcing tens of thousands to evacuate
Donald Trump won't rule out Force to
take Greenland and the Panama Canal meta
drops factchecking from its us social
media sites and we look at Jean Marie Le
Pen's lasting impact on French
[Music]
politics it's Wednesday January 8th this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Christopher walljasper in Chicago
and I'm Carmel KMS in
[Music]
Dublin firefighters battle a wildfire
roaring to the affluent Pacific
Palisades neighborhood in Los
Angeles at least 30,000 people have
evacuated the area home to several
Hollywood stars with traffic jams
forcing some to flee on
foot I mean I have never seen anything
fires were this close to the cars people
left their cars and Palisades Drive
burning up the hillside Cindy Festa
speaking from her car as she evacuates
the area and the firemen are great but
can only do so much bulldozers are
pushing abandoned vehicles from the
roads so that emergency vehicles can
pass we are not out of danger the
national weather service has predicted
that the winds are going to pick up and
get worse La fire chief Anthony
says dangerous conditions are expected
through the week so it's incumbent that
everybody have a wildfire action plan
for their
home Donald Trump is ramping up his
campaign to expand the United States's
Global footprint
in a freewheeling hourlong press
conference on Tuesday the
president-elect said he plans to rename
the Gulf of Mexico we're going to be uh
changing the name of the Gulf of Mexico
to the Gulf of America which has a
beautiful ring that covers a lot of
territory the Gulf of he says Greenland
and the Panama Canal should be under Us
control we need them for Economic
Security and he's not ruling out using
economic or military coercion to achieve
that it might be that you'll have to do
something Trump is suggesting he would
impose tariffs on Denmark if it resists
his offer to purchase Greenland which he
says is vital to US National Security
Now the sparsely populated autonomous
territory of Denmark is not up for sale
but on Tuesday Trump's son Don Jr
arrived in Greenland's capital for what
he described as a private
visit yakob grun halt Peterson is our
chief correspondent in Denmark the US
interest in Greenland dates back decades
I mean even Harry Truman tried to buy it
back in the ' 50s and of course famously
Donald Trump offered to buy it back in
2019 and was rebuffed by the Danish
Prime Minister calling the offer absurd
Greenland if is of great interest to the
United States because it's sort of the
shortest route from Europe to to North
America so any missile attack would go
via Island the United States has an air
base up in Northern Greenland to detect
incoming missiles from Russia or from
China it's famously known that Greenland
is basically a black hole in in terms of
um surveillance numerous spottings of
Russian submarines in the Deep FS of of
Eastern Greenland is a is a concern and
also with climate change and as the ice
melts and and shipping routs are opening
up it's also opening up for more
possibilities in terms of extracting
mineral resources and oil and gas so in
that sense Russia and China have been
very active in the in the Arctic and the
United States is trying to catch
[Music]
up a us judge has temporarily blocked
special counsel Jack Smith from
releasing a report on his investigations
into President elect Donald Trump the
report details the mishandling of
classified documents and attempts to
overturn the 2020 presidential election
and in New York an appellate judge has
denied Trump's request to delay
sentencing in his criminal hush money
case that's set to take place on
Friday a new job plan for Matt Gates the
former Congressman says he's considering
a run for governor in 2026 in his home
state of
Florida a rescue operation is underway
in Tibet after Tuesday's 6.8 magnitude
earthquake more than 400 people trapped
by Rubble have been rescued with an
unknown number still unaccounted for at
least 126 people are
[Music]
dead meta is ditching its factchecking
program in the US instead the social
media company will use a community notes
model similar to X to moderate content
on Facebook Instagram and threads and
we've reached a point where it's just
too many mistakes and too much
censorship CEO Mark Zuckerberg
explaining the decision the recent
elections also feel like a cultural
Tipping Point towards once again
prioritizing speech so we're going to
get back to our roots and focus on
reducing mistakes simplifying our
policies and restoring free expression
on our platforms our reporter Katie Paul
has been looking into the company's
reversal but seems that at least an
element of this is due to the political
climate in the US Mark Zuckerberg has
been reaching out allive branches to the
new incoming Republican Administration
he's been trying to mend fences with
Donald Trump with whom he's had tensions
over the years particularly after meta
suspended Trump's accounts um in the
wake of the January 6th riots at the US
capital and so this is coming as part of
a a succession of changes in the past
several months including changing the
head of global Affairs last week and
elevating a a prominent Republican
executive at meta to the post how
effective is this community notes model
in combating misinformation a lot of
people say that it's it's not sufficient
on its own right it's part of a kind of
broader system of checks and balances
that that should exist on social media
platforms including factchecking the
oversight board said that Community
notes can be something that really
promotes free speech and and free
exchange of ideas the fact chors seem to
have been blindsided by it so they're
expressing dismay and also challenging
the assertion that Zuckerberg and others
have have made from meta that there were
cases of mistakes or bias for now meta
is only planning the changes for the US
market reuter's partners with meta's
factchecking program and has declined to
comment
[Music]
an icon of France's political far right
has
died Jean Marie Le Pen founded France's
farri national front party in
1972 and spent decades contesting five
presidential elections with bluecollar
populist support Elizabeth Pino is in
Paris Elizabeth how has leen's political
career
left an impact on French politics it's
really the end of an era in France he
was a real figure a character in the
political landscape and it seems that
he's been here forever really because he
was always in the background when he was
yongi was a soldier in the colonial wars
and then he founded the national rally
and at first it was very very radical
and little by little he uh just made his
way in the French political landscape
handing uh in 2002 when he um just
finished second in the presidential
election hundreds of thousands French
people came onto the streets to protest
because he was really linked with racism
a fight against immigration white France
patriotism anti-Semitism also and he
liked to be very provocative and even
very controversial he said that the
Holocaust was a detail of of the second
world war and he was convicted for that
and when Marine Leen is daughter she's
now a very important figure in France
politic but Marine Leen had to cut the
links with her father she said enough
with controversy and she changed the
name of the national front John Mar Leen
disliked that and he said that it was a
betrayal but she kept on changing the
content also of the program of the
national rally then works because the
two last presidential election and Macon
won but she's not far from being elected
one day and this was kind of impossible
with je Mari Leen because he was too
radical but really he prepared path for
his daughter because some of his ideas
of French first patriotism fight against
immigration these are ideas that Marine
Leen still has today
[Music]
for today's recommended read we look at
how Iran manages to move oil around the
world skirting Western sanctions by
relying on a shadow Fleet of tankers as
well as willing buyers in Asia a link to
the story and Graphics is in today's pod
description for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app don't forget to
follow us on your favorite podcast
player we'll be back tomorrow with our
daily headline show
