today Britain's K starma hopes to
persuade president Trump to offer a
security back stop for Ukraine Trump
himself shares a spotlight with Elon
Musk at his first cabinet meeting and we
dig into why musk Doge activities are
confounding us
[Music]
courts it's Thursday February 27th this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front line in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Christopher walljasper in Chicago
and I'm Tara Oaks in
Liverpool award-winning actor Jean
Hackman and his wife Betsy arakawa have
been found dead in their home in New
Mexico a county sheriff says the couple
died along with their dog and that there
is no immediate indication of Foul Play
Hackman who was 95 was a Hollywood
Legend thanks to Star turns in The
French Connection Mississippi Burning
and the Royal Tenon
[Music]
bals internet personality Andrew Tate
along with his brother Tristan have left
Romania on a private flight Bound for
the US the tape brothers are under
criminal investigation in Romania on
accusations of human trafficking they
have denied all
wrongdoing buses carrying hundred
hundreds of freed Palestinians arriving
in gaza's
canun an overnight swap after a standoff
the first phase of a Gaza ceasefire is
set to end this week and the fate of
phase 2 and the remaining 59 Israeli
hostages remains
unclear supreme court Chief Justice John
Roberts has paused a federal judge's
order requiring the Trump Administration
to pay out foreign aid funds Robert gave
no explanation for the order which will
ultimately give the top Court more time
to consider the administration's request
to block the judge's
ruling an unvaccinated child in West
Texas has died of measles it's the first
reported us death from the highly
contagious disease in 10 years a Texas
outbreak has grown from a handful of
cases to more than
130 jailed pkk militant leader Abdullah
urgan is expected to give a statement
later today it's one that anchor hopes
will pave the way for the group to
disarm an end a four decade Insurgency
against turkey you can follow along with
the expected statement and developments
on reuters.com and the Reuters
app chipmaker Nvidia has beaten
expectations with the 78% jump in
Revenue year-over-year
investors were on the lookout for signs
of slowing demand for invidious Wares
and a Slowdown in the AI fueled Market
boom Amanda Cooper is here to break down
the Q4 numbers for us bear in mind
Nvidia routinely beats analyst
expectations but the scope of that beat
has narrowed as of course competition
has heated up from other Market players
I think the take-home from envidia
judging by the very muted reaction in
the stock price suggests that the
absence of any major surprises are
basically good news results haven't gone
far enough perhaps to soothe some of the
concerns that people had about
overspending in the industry in light of
the emergence of China's deep seat model
in late January which got everybody
thinking that perhaps the race for AI
dominance can be won by spending less
money and using less sophisticated chips
there's a whole galaxy of stocks that
react to whatever Nvidia does or says or
to perceptions around what demand might
look like for NVIDIA but even those are
on a very even Keel this morning which
suggests that no bad news is good news
[Music]
British prime minister Kia Stormer is
meeting us president Donald Trump later
today it's their first iners meeting
since the Republican leader upended US
policy on Ukraine the Middle East and
global trade a UK bureau chief Kate hton
is here to tell us what starma is hoping
for from the Meet he is hoping to build
on what so far is a relatively solid
relationship with Donald Trump the men
have met before and they've spoken I
think three times s since Trump was
reelected so far Trump has been quite
complimentary about starma and public d
is's a very nice guy and that the UK on
tariffs may not be as bad as Europe the
key thing really is though about Ukraine
what starma has said is that he fully
accepts what the US has long said which
is that European nations should be
spending more on defense and starma has
responded by saying he will increase UK
spending on defense going to two .5% of
GDP by
2027 he has also floated the idea of
offering UK troops in some kind of
peacekeeping role if there is an
established peace in Ukraine but he says
that in order for that to work and in
order for it to have any teeth it has to
have some kind of us back stop so what
that would mean would be the Americans
providing perhaps air cover or Logistics
support so he's hoping to build on that
Donald Trump said overnight that he
didn't see the us giving much on any
kind of security role security
guaranteed that he expects the Europeans
to do that so that's really where the
difficult part of the conversation will
come as St is in Washington hoping for
some movement on Ukraine Trump has
hosted his first full cabinet it turned
into a lengthy Q&A session with
reporters with Trump saying his
administration will soon announce 25%
tariffs on Europe the European Union was
for in order to screw the United States
that's the purpose of it he also made
comments on Mexico and Canada's tariffs
that you know on April 2nd I was going
to do it on April 1st but I'm a little
bit superstitious I made it April 2D the
tariffs go on and a new immigration
pathway if you can afford the $5 million
price tag it's sort of a green card uh
plus and it's a path to citizenship
we're going to call it the gold card and
I think it's going to be very treasured
and while not an official member of
Trump's cabinet Elon Musk was standing
off to the side in his now signature
black make America great again hat and a
t-shirt that read tech support here
because this is
actually that's crazy as it sounds that
that that is almost a literal
description of the work that the Doge
team is doing musk made the case for the
Department of government efficiency and
its massive slashes to the federal
Workforce and even whole agencies he
also explained his email recently asking
all government workers to tell him what
they did last week I think that email
perhaps was best interpreted as a
performance review but actually it was a
pulse check review uh do you have a
pulse do you have a pulse and two
neurons which Trump then doubled down on
I wouldn't say that we're thrilled about
it you know they haven't responded now
maybe they don't
[Music]
exist but even as musk got the thumbs up
from Trump and his cabinet Doge has been
the subject of a flurry of lawsuits
attempting to slow down musk's cuts and
even as unions and Democratic State
Attorneys General say that doge is
violating privacy laws and even the
Constitution the courts have been more
circumspect our legal correspondent Tom
Halls has been digging into why a
holding Doge accountable has proven to
be so difficult the Department of
Justice attorneys have uh repeatedly
told judges that musk is a kind of just
a consultant to the president they have
described Doge as a kind of just like a
service that provides advice to the
president it's not really an agency
because Doge wasn't created by Congress
and musk wasn't confirmed by the Senate
so these are like pretty important
questions and judges aren't getting very
good answers for a judge to step in and
order musk and Doge to stop doing
whatever it is they're doing the
plaintiffs would have to show a imminent
irreparable harm and usually the courts
like to use the analogy of a wrecking
ball about to knock down a building
there was one case in particular where
the judge said but all you're giving me
is Media reports you need to show me you
have concrete examples of a program
that's about to be cut and of course
they don't have that because we have no
Insight really at all what's happening
at these various agencies and
departments okay so does Musk have any
formal authority to make decisions in
the government if he doesn't actually
work for Doge they've thoroughly
embraced musk's as the face of all this
that that does contradict what they
actually say tell judges and and say in
court filings where they've just
declined to identify who runs do and
this followed some pointed questioning
of the uh White House spokeswoman when
she declined at the podium in front of
the reporters to say who the
administrator was interestingly on
Tuesday the administration did identify
gleon as the administrator of Doge but
at this point we don't know anything
about her so what's the administration's
response been yeah the White House musk
everyone else has declined to comment
when we've reached out but last week
president Trump was asked to describe uh
Elon musk's role and he said you can
call him an employee you can call him a
consultant but in the end he said
whatever you want to call him he's a
[Music]
patriot and for today's recommended read
we travel to the ancient city of Pompei
archaeologists have uncovered rare
frescos that offer fresh insight into
the initiation rides for followers of
dionis the ancient Greek god of wine
fertility theater and religious ecstasy
you can find out more about them by
following the link in our description
for more on any of the stories from
today check out reuters.com or the
Reuters app don't forget to follow us on
your favorite podcast player we'll be
back tomorrow with our daily headline
show
