today Donald Trump names his chief of
staff as the world awaits his foreign
policy moves black voters take stock of
a shocking election result and Israel
sends planes to bring home citizens
attacked in
[Music]
Amsterdam it's Friday November 8th this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Jonah Green in New York and I'm
Carmel crims in
Dublin setbacks are unavoidable but
giving up is unforgivable speaking from
the Rose Garden President Joe Biden
sought to console fellow Democrats who
are alarmed by Donald Trump's return to
the White House Biden also called for
Americans to bring down the temperature
and accept the election results I also
hope we can later rest the question
about the Integrity of the American
electoral system his comments a direct
rebuke of trump who sought to overturn
his 2020 defeat and raised baseless
claims of fraud this year as well
yesterday I spoke with President elect
Trump to congratulate him on his victory
and I assured him that I direct my
entire Administration to work with his
team to ensure a peaceful and orderly
transition that's what the American
people deserve Biden also praised his
vice president kamla Harris though many
Democrats now blame her loss on Biden's
decision to run for reelection in the
first
place the ice B we call it the ice
B Susie likes to stay in the background
she's not in the
background Susie WS is definitely not
staying in the background
president-elect Trump has picked his
2024 campaign manager for a front and
center role in his second
Administration the 67-year-old will be
the first woman to serve as white house
chief of staff hers is the first
appointment in what's expected to be a
flurry of Staffing announcements As
Trump preps his return to the Oval
Office in January and as preparations in
the executive branch continue over in
Congress the Republican party is on
track to win the house and widen its
majority in the Senate
as America's friends and foes abroad
await Trump's return to office many are
wondering how he'll handle US foreign
policy and who better to ask than our US
foreign policy editor Don dery what we
may see is more of what we saw in the
first term of trump and really the
defining feature of his first term in
foreign policy was its unpredictability
Trump and his supporters would argue
that this is an advantage it keeps us
competitors on their toes for us allies
was you know I think it was often
disconcerting and frustrating you saw a
couple different versions of trump there
was the isolationist who was very
focused on levying tariffs talking about
potentially pulling the United States
out of NATO there was also the dealmaker
Trump the one who set up Summits with
the North Korean leader to talk about
nuclear arms control also getting
through the Abraham Accords right which
resulted in some of Israel's Arab
neighbors recognizing it where do you
see Trump making his first foreign
policy Visions Ukraine is going to be
perhaps the first and biggest question
here so on the campaign Trail Trump has
expressed great skepticism for the US
support of Ukraine and you could look at
China right during his first term there
was obviously a big trade war with China
and tariffs that were levied back and
forth between the two countries and he
has promised to do a replay of that with
even larger tariffs this time
potentially going size 200% on some
products and his approach has often been
you go in strong with something like
tariffs and then use that as an
opportunity to negotiate for what it is
that you really want and for a more
in-depth look at how Trump will navigate
Russia's war in Ukraine check out our
weekend podcast out
tomorrow Israel's government is sending
two planes to Amsterdam for Citizens
injured in attacks targeting Israeli
soccer fans video videos circulating on
social media show a group of men chasing
and assaulting other men and Riot police
intervening Israeli and Dutch officials
have described the attacks as
anti-semitic they follow a soccer match
between ax Amsterdam and makabi Tel Aviv
Dutch police have detained 57
people over 10,000 people were ordered
to evacuate communities Northwest of Los
Angeles as Fierce seasonal winds drove a
wildfire down dry hillsides into Ranch
and homes authorities say the blaze has
Burnt Over 20,000
Acres Argentine authorities have charged
three people in connection with the
death of One Direction singer Liam Payne
Payne fell from a hotel balcony on
buanes Ares last month those charged
include a suspected drug dealer a hotel
employee who may have provided pain with
cocaine and a person who was close to
the singer the authorities say
[Applause]
the Federal Reserve has cut its policy
rate by 25 basis points as expected Fed
chair Jerome Powell says the US economy
is performing remarkably well with
strong growth a strong labor market and
inflation coming down but the Fed chair
on Thursday was asked about a new
variable to consider president-elect
Donald Trump um if he asked you to leave
would you go no uh can you follow up on
is do you think that legally he you're
not required to leave no reporter Howard
Schneider was there so Howard a very
succinct answer from Powell there I mean
no wasted words well the message is is
pretty clear that he intends to be in
that job until May of 2026 when his term
as chair is up does Donald Trump really
want to take on another constitutional
fight uh in trying to fire J pal when
inflation's coming down and he's cutting
interest rates seems like that's a
pretty low proposition and so what is
Thursday's decision tell us about the
economy uh moving into the end of the
year and Beyond this is the soft Landing
they'd hope to achieve coming into the
December meeting many in the markets
expect another cut then but uh we'll see
what inflation does in the meantime how
could the new
Administration affect these plans
they've been through this before they
had to respond to Trump tax cuts in 2017
2018 there was an expected Spurt of
growth around that and the Fed was
raising rates in response to that and
then the following year uh growth
started to slow because of the trade War
slowing in the global economy and they
ended up cutting rates in response to
that Donald Trump's win has sent shock
waves through black American communities
which overwhelmingly voted for Camala
Harris Trump did make gains among black
Americans in North Carolina and some in
the community celebrated his win but
naal Ally his vote share among black
voters was unchanged in Tuesday's vote
from
2020 here's voter James day who spoke to
us in Georgia one of the Battleground
states where Trump tried to court
African-American men uh as an
African-American in this country it made
me realize just you know how racist and
sexist this country is unfortunately
Trump has denied he is racist and says
his agenda will boost jobs and housing
for all
Americans reporter Bianca flowers has
been talking to African Americans in and
around Atlanta the obvious uh concerns
that most black Americans have is RO
rollbacks in Civil Rights and Freedoms
we've seen over the past several years
specifically in Donald Trump's candidacy
um and running for a second term very
disparaging comments made about people
of color black Americans women and so
what they fear is that his presidency
will only heighten those racial tensions
in the US and
what his supporters and far-right
activists and and nationalists may be
capable of given this divisive language
harus had a lot of Grassroots support in
the black community were you able to
find out if supporters plan to stay
engaged or invested in the political
process I I did have a few calls with
black female organizers so these are the
women that really work the the breeding
ground for the historic fundraising
behind kamla Harris one thing that
really stood out to me me on these
conversations that I've had with each of
these women is while they're upset and
surprised there also is a feeling of let
down and betrayal just how the elector
eventually swung towards um president
Trump and so they're taking a step back
but not necessarily being discouraged by
it but using it in in a way to really
just further themselves and to ignite
this sense of codery and unity at the
Grassroots level at the state level and
seeing what they can do to push for
policy to advance the rights of not only
black Americans but any group uh within
the United States that feels
marginalized left out or discriminated
[Music]
against and before we go our recommended
read to see you into the weekend is
about how Elon musk's dreams of getting
people to Mars will become a bigger
National priority under Donald Trump you
can find a link to the story in today's
pot description for more on Trump's
space policy agenda and musk's Mars
mission and for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the roers app don't forget to tune
into to our weekend episode on Trump and
the war in Ukraine and to never miss an
episode follow along on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back on Monday
with our daily headline show
