today Ukraine dominates the agenda of a
Munich security conference as the city
reels from a car ramming attack the
growing tension between Elon Musk and
parts of Trump's Administration rfk's
priorities as health secretary and
Fallout and resignations after the
justice department orders the corruption
case against mayor Eric Adams to be
[Music]
dropped it's Friday February 14th this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tara Oaks in Liverpool and I'm
Christopher walljasper in
Chicago the Munich security conference
kicks off today with global leaders
Gathering to tackle a wide array of
security challenges facing the world
president Donald Trump's phone call with
Vladimir Putin this week will put the
war in Ukraine front and center our
reporter Andrew Gray is covering the
conference Andrew what's the mood like
right now among Europeans given that
Trump has taken the wheel on
negotiations between Russia and Ukraine
yeah it's been a bit of a wakeup call I
think there was a lot of talk from
European officials that they expected
the Trump Administration to be in
listening mode that this was the
Europeans chance to influence the Trump
Administration when it came to Ukraine
and then they discovered that actually
the administration was going ahead
without them they're clearly very
uncomfortable with a lot of Trump's
approach to foreign policy now
particularly what's happening with
Ukraine on the other hand they see
Russia as a growing threat and they know
that America is their protector America
gives them the nuclear umbrella America
has tens of thousands of troops on
European soil and America has a bunch of
military capabilities that other
countries don't have other NATO members
they're trying to walk this very
uncomfortable line of trying to keep in
Trump's good graces as much as possible
while also not necessarily buying into
all of it so what does this mean for the
agenda at the conference it puts Ukraine
right at the heart of it president
zinski will be there vice president
Vance will be there Secretary of State
Rubio will be there the last two
president Trump has said are part of his
negotiating team and he says
negotiations will start immediately
so that raises the prospect that
actually peace talks of A Sort could
start already during the
conference Trump has said that Ukraine
would be involved in peace talks with
Russia Munich was in the spotlight
before the conference's official start
yesterday when a car driven by an Afghan
National plowed into a crowd in dring 30
in what officials say was likely an
attack the incident and the conference
come as as Germany prepares for an
election dominated by immigration and
security
issues you can hear more about the
upcoming vote in our weekend special
episode of the podcast out
[Music]
tomorrow the top federal prosecutor in
Manhattan has resigned after refusing to
drop the corruption case against New
York mayor Eric Adams Danielle Sasson as
well as five other officials at the
justice department all resigned
following the order from a top doj
official to drop the
case the first wave of a mass firing of
federal workers has begun at several
agencies including the education
department and the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau termination emails
have been sent out in the past 48 hours
though it's unclear how many federal
workers stand to lose their
jobs Trump and Indian Prime Minister nen
Modi have agreed to talks in an effort
to land an early trade deal and resolve
their standoff over tariffs New Delhi
has promised to buy more us oil and gas
and military equipment as well as fight
illegal
immigration Hamas says it's committed to
releasing hostages this weekend as long
as Israel upholds its end of the
ceasefire deal The Fragile truce looked
close to collapse earlier this week when
Hamas announced it would stop releasing
hostages leading Israel to respond with
the threat of returning to
war and a Reuters exclusive the Trump
administration's sweeping cuts to
foreign aid has haunted us funded
anti-narcotics programs in Mexico that
were working to curb the flow of fenel
into the
states and the pope is in hospital where
the Vatican says he'll be continuing
treatment for his ongoing bronchitis
[Applause]
[Music]
president Trump has ordered his
economics team to come up with a plan
for reciprocal tariffs on every country
that taxes us Imports Comm cmans has
more so Trump's directive stops short of
actually imposing tariffs what it does
do is kick off weeks or even months of
work for his team to calculate the
duties that would match what other
countries currently charge if Trump does
move ahead with such tariffs it would
Kickstart a global trade War but his
decision not to go with tariffs right
away could be seen as the start of
negotiations to extract concessions from
trade Partners markets are certainly
taking it that way for now Wall Street
ended higher and bond yields fell
suggesting investors are more confident
about inflation
cooling as Elon Musk expands his
influence over federal agencies slashing
budgets and jobs sources tell Reuters
that frustration is growing among
president Trump's top AIDS perhaps the
most important person who has expressed
some frustration with musk is Chief of
Staff Susie WS our reporter Alexandra
olmer has been digging into what's
happening behind the scenes the main
issue seems to be about communication
Susie ws and her team don't always feel
like they're in the loop about what doge
is doing according to our sources we
have sources telling us that the White
House team has found out about some of
Doge's activities through X I.E they
weren't in the loop ahead of time as
some of the emails that were sent out to
federal workers in late January offering
them incentives a buyout to quit for
instance her team wasn't signed off on
some of those emails according to two of
our sources now this is happening
against the backdrop of musk dismissing
concerns over transparency so all of our
actions we are maximally transparent in
fact I don't think there's been I I
don't know of a case where an
organization's been more transparent
than the Doge organization White House
Press Secretary Carolyn levit addressed
it too term this is unified team who is
working at the pleasure of the president
to do what's right for the American
people now the administration is new we
have a source pushing back saying we've
sorted out some of our differences on
the other hand this could also
foreshadow a bigger Clash to come uh
Trump ran a very tight operation under
Susie WS during the campaign but his
first Administration was famously
chaotic and had a lot of infighting are
we at the brink of something else like
that or will they sort it out I think
that's one of the key questions for the
kind of stability of his administration
and the future of
Jo Department of Health and Human
Services Robert F Kennedy Jr of
California to be secretary Robert F
Kennedy Jr has been confirmed and sworn
in as the new US Health secretary Senate
Republicans were almost all United in
Kennedy's confirmation with Senator
Mitch McConnell the only hold out
reporter Stephanie Kelly has the details
on what comes next when he was sworn in
on Thursday during that ceremony he said
he wanted to prioritize on his first day
radical transparency and removing
conflicts of interest from government at
the same time Trump also signed an
executive order to establish a make
America healthy again commission that
will investigate chronic illness and
deliver an action plan to fight
childhood diseases and he managed to win
over some Skeptics right about a week
ago before Kennedy's confirmation
was unclear whether a Republican senator
Bill Cassidy from Louisiana would end up
supporting Kennedy Cassidy was concerned
about statements Kennedy had made in the
past about vaccines and vaccine
skepticism and to gain the support of
Cassidy Kennedy pledged that he would
not remove government health agency
statements that vaccines do not cause
autism and he committed to honor
Decisions by an outside panel of EXP
experts on vaccines except we're not
really sure how to take those
commitments because he's not legally
required to keep those
[Music]
pledges it's Valentine's Day so we're
recommending a breakup podcast for you
about central banks it's not quite
conscious uncoupling more like conscious
decoupling between the fed and its peers
on rate cuts president Trump's
threatened trade war is helping to drive
a wider wedge and yes there is the risk
of financial heartache that's all in the
latest episode of econ world and there's
a link in the Pod description for more
on any of the stories from today check
out reuters.com or the Reuters app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back on Monday
with our daily headline show
