today a suspect is in custody in the
fatal shooting of United healthc Care's
CEO syrians searched a notorious sedah
prison for missing relatives and in
Haiti a brutal string of murders over
the weekend has very personal ties to
one notorious gang
leader it's Tuesday December 10th this
is reuter's world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tara Oaks in Liverpool and I'm
Christopher walljasper in
Chicago authorities have arrested the
man suspected of killing United
Healthcare Executive Brian Thompson last
week New York City officials announced
the news Monday ending a massive 5-day
Manhunt the suspect has been identified
as 26-year-old Luigi Manon Kio Chavez
sent us this from where he was captured
in Altuna Pennsylvania Manon was brought
before a judge around 6:27 p.m. he was
wearing long sleeve athletic shirt and
jeans with socks but no shoes police
said mangion was arrested Monday morning
after a McDonald's customer recognized
him from the photos of the suspect that
had been circulated and asked an
employee to call the
police Manon was found with a ghost gun
a firearm assembled from parts making it
untraceable and a silencer consistent
with the weapon used to shoot Thompson
according to police now a profile of the
ivy league educated suspect is coming
together and our reporter Andrew Haye is
covering the story he grew up in
Maryland he attended a private boy
School in Baltimore where he was the
valedictorian and then he went on to the
University of Pennsylvania where he got
undergraduate and graduate degrees in
computer science now we had a news
conference today from the New York
Police Department where we learned that
this suspect mangani was found with a
Manifesto of sorts a handwritten note
which the police chief said expressed
ill will towards Corporate America and
specifically with regards Insurance
firms said that they were putting
profits above people and further than
that on his ex profile
there may be a clue he has an x-ray
picture of spinal fusion surgery that's
when you put titanium plates in the back
of a person and you screw screws into
their spinal column which is following a
catastrophic back injury whether that
had something to do with his ill will
towards the health industry we don't
know
the South Korean Parliament has passed a
bill to appoint a special council-led
probe of the president following his
botched attempt to declare marshal
law Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu takes the stand today for the
first time in his long-running
corruption trial Netanyahu is charged
with bribery fraud and breach of trust
he denies any
wrongdoing Brazilian president Luis
diasio Lula D Silva has had surgery in
poo to drain a bleed on his brain linked
to a fall at home in October that's
according to a medical note published by
the
government Daniel penny a former Marine
who in 2023 used a Chokehold to restrain
a homeless man on a New York Subway has
been found not guilty of criminally
negligent
homicide media Mogul Rupert Murdoch has
lost a bid to change his family trust
and consolidate control of his media
Empire with his son lachlin the trust
currently divides control of the media
company that includes Fox and News Corp
equally among all four of Murdoch's
oldest children three of whom are more
politically moderate than
laan it's the opening day of reuter's
next reuter's annual live journalism
Summit and we've let KL crimmin loose in
New York y for it Carl how's the city
that never sleeps treating you Splendid
as always Tara all right so who's
hitting the main stage today at next
we've got a cracking lineup we've got
the CEOs of Goldman Sachs and Ferrari so
that's Wall Street and fast cars covered
we've got the Chief Financial Officer of
open Ai and the president of Google
parent alphabet so that's Silicon Valley
well represented and lows more we'll be
diving into geopolitics the Trump
presidency Ai and finance so how can
people tune into all this they can catch
a live stream on the Reuters app and
reuters.com and we'll have coverage of
all the news at the event there
[Music]
too in Al Jaa sits outside Syria once
forbidding Saida prison at 10 years ago
she was told by authorities that her
imprisoned brother was dead and that she
should not
return she didn't believe
them after the dramatic fall of
President Bashar al-assad
thousands of prisoners have H free with
jarard joining the wave of families
desperately searching for
information our Syria bureau chief Maya
jabile was also there as those families
trolled the dark corridors and hidden
cells in the labyrinthine
[Music]
complex there were several people that
had come out of the prison alive
extremely traumatized very very poor
shape healthwise and people were hoping
that there were further underground
levels that were going to be uncovered
where they could find their loved
ones and we saw civil defense workers
that were drilling into the floor
drilling into walls breaking down doors
and trying to find any hidden cells or
any hidden sections of the prison that
had not been opened
yet there were also a lot of people that
were picking up documents papers and
were desperately looking through them to
find the name of their relatives the
reason why this is so traumatic for
syrians was that in many cases they
could never actually get a straight
answer from Syrian Security Forces about
where their loved ones were I was
looking through some papers and family
members would just come running up to me
and say are their names there can you
find anyone who's who maybe is from this
area of Syria or from this part of
Damascus I also spoke to many activists
who have been working on the issue of
the forcibly disappeared for years and
they told me it was great that a lot of
people could be released within hours of
President Bashar Al Assad's government
toppling but they were also worried that
the documents that were being picked up
and Scattered and picked up and taken
home contained really important evidence
and that meant ultimately that Justice
could not be
served in Washington officials say
they're trying to find out the
whereabouts of Austin TI the American
journalist captured in Syria 12 years
ago is Israel has denied an incursion
into the country saying they've remained
within a designated buffer zone security
sources had claimed Israel had moved to
within 16 miles of Damascus after air
strikes on Syrian Army and air
bases hundreds of Haitians were killed
over the weekend in cite solle one of
the poorest communities in Haiti the
series of killings are suspected to be
orchestrated by a gang leader named
monel Miko Felix but unlike much of the
recent violence in Haiti this Rampage
was more personal and targeted at the
slums Elders Harold Isaac is in Haiti
help me understand what happened over
the weekend what we've gathered so far
is that mik the notorious gangster that
has a tight grip on C solle had an
ailing son and referred essentially to a
voodoo priest for treatment and and it
appears that the voodoo priest indicted
for lack of a better word the elderly
Community within C solle that he alleged
uh were responsible of Witchcraft which
he claims has made his kids uh sick and
as such the first part of that Massacre
happened on Friday where over 50 people
got killed and then subsequently when
the kid died on the Saturday another set
of people were were killed
gruesomely in response to the kid's
death Miko hasn't publicly responded to
the claims that he's Behind These
killings but what do we know about him
and and how he fits into this broader
network of gang leaders in Haiti
specifically the more notable Jimmy
barbecue Sher well from what we know
they've been long Affiliated Miko was
reputed to be a very strong eyy a very
reliable eye of barbecue but one of the
things that really is been notorious for
is really the grip that he has on City
solle in the warf Jeremy area where even
cell phones are not really allowed for
folks to to use which really kind of
slowed the spread of the
[Music]
news and for today's recommended read
Google says it has cracked a Quantum
Computing challenge for the new
generation of Chip solving a Computing
problem in just 5 minutes that would
take a classical computer more time than
the history of a universe a link to that
story is in the Pod description for more
on any of the stories from today check
out reuters.com or download the Reuters
app don't forget to follow us on your
favorite podcast player we'll be back
tomorrow with our daily headline show
