today Ukraine has signed a US proposal
for a ceasefire with Russia Will the
Kremlin agree to a 30-day halt in
fighting trump's steel and aluminum
tariffs take effect as a global trade
war intensifies And the Colombia
University student who was arrested for
protesting the war in Gaza heads to
court
It's Wednesday March 12th This is
Reuters World News bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tara Oaks in Liverpool and I'm
Christopher Wal Jasper in Chicago
Ukraine has agreed to accept a US
proposal for a 30-day ceasefire in its
conflict with Russia US President Donald
Trump is welcoming the development and
says now the ball is in Moscow's court
Ukraine ceasefire just agreed to a
little while ago Now we have to go to
Russia and hope president hopefully
President Putin will agree to that also
Ukraine's president Vladimir Zalinski
did not participate in the talks but
says a ceasefire is a positive
proposal and that it covers the front
line in the conflict not just fighting
by air and sea Our foreign policy editor
Don Dery is following the developments
So this is really significant One of the
things that the United States has agreed
to do immediately is to restore
intelligence sharing and military
supplies to Ukraine Both of those had
gotten cut off after a really you know
disastrous meeting between Trump and
Zilinski at the Oval Office uh the other
week And intelligence sharing is crucial
for the Ukrainians This is what they
used for the long range targeting of
Russian forces The next really big
question is whether Russia agrees to
this proposed ceasefire Trump envoy
Steve Witkoff is headed to Moscow later
this week to discuss it with the
Russians And it's not clear The Russians
are doing pretty well on the battlefield
right now They don't have a great deal
of incentive to compromise although they
have signal that they're willing to talk
So is there any indication how Trump
might approach Russian President
Vladimir Putin to complete the ceasefire
deal one thing that's been really
striking about this is how willing Trump
has been to really apply some pressure
to a US ally He's will really willing to
play hard ball I mean the Trump
administration has said that they are
also willing to apply pressure to
Vladimir Putin but we really haven't
seen anything that's comparable to the
kind of pressure that they've they've
put on
[Music]
Ukraine Trump's 25% tariffs on steel and
aluminum imports to the US have hit
Europe's been quick to respond saying it
will impose counter tariffs on 28
billion dollars worth of US goods from
next month Trump says his economic
policy of sweeping tariffs which has
sent global markets reeling this week is
having quote tremendously positive
impact At a business roundt meeting in
Washington DC on Tuesday Trump told
around a 100 CEOs of America's biggest
companies that his tariffs would entice
companies to build new facilities in the
US The biggest win is if they move into
our country and produce jobs That's a
bigger win than the tariffs themselves
Our White House reporter Jeff Mason was
at the business roundt meeting and was
able to gauge the mood of the room Often
when President Trump is speaking before
a crowd you get the sense that he has
them in the palm of his hand I would not
say that that was the case here These
were business executives and no doubt a
bunch of them were not super happy about
their stock prices He did start by
talking about tariffs and I would
describe the reaction as fairly muted
maybe stoic certainly not happy I mean
you can see how they could be suffering
from tariff whiplash right at one point
on Tuesday Trump threatened a 50% metal
tariff rate on Canada after Ontario's
Premier Doug Ford threatened a 25%
tariff on electricity from the province
to the US We will not back down pausing
some tariffs making lastminute
exemptions It won't cut it We need to
end the chaos which he then suspended
Jeff how is the Trump administration
responding to concerns about how his
economic policy and the tumultuous back
and forth on tariffs are affecting the
economy so the Trump administration feel
very confident that his economic policy
is going to have a long-term positive
effect And the president spoke about the
potential for small disturbances There's
a lot of back and forth on tariffs all
the time in DC and specifically at this
White House and with this president
Tuesday was that on steroids which of
course had an impact on the stock market
And during the event at the White House
where President Trump was looking at
Tesla vehicles with the intention of
buying one what's your best of these
cars what do you think well uh the car
that I drive is the Model S Uh I was out
there with the press pool and when the
president came out to look at these cars
he mentioned that the Ontario premier
had decided to walk back his plan And I
asked him while we were out there does
that mean you're now going to reduce the
the tariffs on Canada just to be clear
sir the 50% is that going to go into
effect on Canada or not which one the
50% tariffs We I'll let you know about
it and then his administration ended up
making clear after that in fact they
were walking back from that initial
pledge But he feels strongly that the
tariffs are the right way to go and that
there may be a little bit of pain
involved
[Music]
A mother begging for news of her child
after a train hijacking in Pakistan
The Balo Liberation Army an ethnic armed
group have claimed responsibility for
blowing up a railway track and opening
fire on a passenger train Pakistani
forces have rescued over 150 people and
an operation is underway to free the
rest The militants say they were holding
over 200 people
hostage The US House of Representatives
has passed a stop gap bill to keep the
federal government funded past Friday
The continuing resolution averts a
partial shutdown that would begin this
weekend even as President Trump
dramatically cuts the government The
bill still needs to be passed by the
Republican majority Senate and signed
into law by Trump by Friday in order to
avert a
shutdown The US Department of Education
will lay off nearly half its staff The
news comes as federal agencies try and
meet President Trump's Thursday deadline
to submit plans for a second round of
mass layoffs Affected employees will be
placed on administrative leave starting
March
21st The legal battle over the
Palestinian student arrested over the
weekend by Immigration and Customs
Enforcement heads to federal court today
Makmoud Khalil who was a legal permanent
resident until his green card was
revoked had been a prominent figure in
pro Palestinian protests at Colombia
University in New York Trump on Tuesday
warned of more arrests But so far the
White House has not presented any
evidence that Khalil supported Hamas or
distributed pro- Hamas flyers Our legal
reporter Tom HS has been looking into
the arrest So Tom I I imagine a lot of
other green card holders in the US are
worried that can the US government
deport someone for taking part in a
protest if they were just taking part in
a protest probably not But if they were
taking part in a protest that involves
say handing out literature clearly
produced by Hamas encouraging people to
commit violence towards Israel they
might be deportable because that might
be defined as an activity espousing
support or engaging in terrorist
activity But there's gray areas of of
what support means right like if you
hand out a flyer that supports Hamas uh
is that speech or is that a deportable
offense interesting point And Khalil
would probably bring that up in
immigration court which is where this
initially will start out He will bring
that up that hey I was exercising my
free speech rights The immigration judge
can't determine constitutional issues
like that but it will come up when he
appeals that case to a federal court of
appeals So then they would also look at
the whether he was exercising his free
speech which means that at the very
least if he doesn't get released ahead
of his immigration court proceeding he
he might be in detention for
[Music]
years And for today's recommended read
Greenland's election result The
opposition Democratic Party and its
slowgo approach to independence from
Denmark has won Trump's threats to take
control of Greenland really raise the
stakes and global interest in the
election And for everything you need to
know about why the island has been
caught up in a geopolitical race to
dominate the Arctic then take a listen
to our special Greenland episode There's
a link to the story and to that podcast
in the podcast description For more on
any of the stories from today check out
Reuters.com or the Reuters app Don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player We'll be back tomorrow
with our daily headline show
