today Germany's new Chancellor in
Waiting hits out at the US and calls for
a stronger Europe Elon musks what did
you do last weekend email to federal
workers and Ukraine marks 3 years since
Russia's Invasion but zilinski promising
to step down if it leads to
peace it's Monday February 24th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes
every weekday I'm Tor Oaks in
[Music]
Liverpool a win for Germany's
conservatives in a fractured
election the CSU CDU block won the most
seats but far right and far left parties
hoed up support from disaffected voters
with the far right alternative for
Germany or afd surging to a historic
second place conservative leader
friederich Merz is likely to be the next
Chancellor but the hard work now begins
with complex Coalition talks he's ruled
out working with the afd a party which
is monitored by German Security Services
on suspicion of
[Music]
extremism and Merz isn't wasting any
time laying out his foreign policy
agenda he's already taken aim at the US
criticizing recent comments from
Washington as ultimately outrageous
comparing them to hostile interventions
from
Russia MZ is vowing to make a stronger
Europe his top
priority our foreign policy editor John
dery has been looking at what the US
reaction could be to a coalition that by
Merz I think that other European leaders
would really welcome having merits who's
a conservative who opposes Russia
supports NATO and the traditional
transatlantic Alliance but all those
things would put him at odds with the
Trump Administration which as we've seen
has taken a you know really tough
approach with its European allies Trump
and his officials have downplayed the
Russian threat they've insisted that
Europe bear more of the cost of
supporting Ukraine and criticize what it
characterizes as the censorship of
right-wing voices in Europe and there
was this remarkable speech by vice
president JT Vance in Munich a couple
weeks ago where he barely mentioned the
war in Ukraine
in said really laid into European allies
and Germany in particular for
marginalizing right-wing parties in
Germany's case the farri afd and you've
seen Trump's close adviser Elon Musk
also being really vocal in suppor of the
afd so what kind of a relationship could
we expect MZ to have with US president
Donald Trump the Trump Administration
has shown itself to not be shy about
inserting itself into other Count's
political debates so it's really not out
of the question that Trump might try to
pressure a meritz government to give a
greater role to the afd after all the
afd does share many of the same
anti-immigrant views as Trump's magga
movement and I don't think we've seen
enough to know how meritz himself would
manage a relationship with
Trump markets have been relieved at
mertz's Victory comml crims explains why
so the Euro has hit a one-month high and
European stock future are charging ahead
investors are hoping that this election
result means more State spending to
counter Germany's weak economy Merz and
his party are seen as Pro business and
pro-investment but it won't be all plain
sailing The Surge and support for the
farri and the farle means it'll be
difficult for him and other mainstream
parties to revise strict limits on
public borrowing that the market wants
to see and it could take him months to
form a coalition if you're interested in
hearing more about the economic
challenge is facing Germany check out a
reuter's econ World podcast I did all
about the transatlantic economy we'll
put a link to it in the description of
today's
[Music]
show Pope Francis remains in critical
condition according to the Vatican he's
in hospital battling double pneumonia
and an issue with his kidney
function and the winner goes
to con
Enclave the papal Thriller picking up
the top prize at Hollywood Screen Actors
Guild Awards a story of secret
maneuvering at the Vatican during a
selection of a fictional Pope Isabella
rosolini who stars in the film wished
the real Pope well during the ceremony
and Timothy shalom's portrayer Bob Dylan
landed him a best act to
win Israeli tanks rolling into the
occupied West Bank for the first time in
20
years the military has been ordered to
prepare for an Extended Stay to fight
Palestinian militant groups in the
area's refugee camps a spokesperson for
the Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas
has condemned the move as a dangerous
escalation don't
respond that's the message some federal
agencies are giving employees after Elon
Musk demanded that they document their
accomplishments over the last week or
lose their jobs federal workers on
Saturday evening received an email with
a subject line that said what did you do
last week musk later warned in a post on
X that failing to respond will be taken
as a
resignation Joseph ax has been looking
into the email sent to roughly 2 million
employees it seems pretty clear that it
was very Broad and to basically
everybody that works for the federal
government it has this deadline of
Monday at midnight from the response
that we've seen from a number of
officials in those agencies and
departments they didn't expect this
because a lot of the responses have
essentially been we don't really know
what this is don't respond to it until
we do a little bit a little more digging
until we figure out a little more about
what this actually is and what it means
you know it came from an address that I
think some agencies didn't necessarily
recognize we know that at least in a
couple of places
officials wanted to make sure that it
wasn't some kind of fishing attempt
right and so it does appear that the
agencies were taken pretty AB back by
this move from musk Does Elon Musk have
the legal authority to tell workers that
they'll lose their jobs if they don't
respond I think legal experts have
looked at it and said they don't think
that that is something that Doge can do
the a couple of unions that represent
federal workers have quickly put out
statements saying they View demand is
illegitimate that they will fight any
attempt to terminate workers who don't
participate in the request and the the
largest federal workers union sent out
guidance to all of their members
essentially saying don't respond to that
email unless your supervisor tells you
to and even then you should ask your
supervisor to explain in detail
precisely what it is you need to say
what you can and cannot include in the
email so that that way they're at least
covered
[Music]
Ukraine's President Vladimir zelinski
marking three years since Russia's
full-scale Invasion with a promise he
vowed to give up his position as leader
if it means peace in Ukraine adding that
he could exchange his departure for
Ukraine's entry into
NATO his comments were seen as being
directed at US president Donald Trump
who last week labeled him a
dictator Mar the anniversary of Russia's
Invasion many world leaders are in Kiev
this is an important day for all of us
to be
here Canada is just in Trudeau joining
dozens of others from across Europe for
a security Summit in a show of unity
with Ukraine morning Mr President Mr
pres good to see you notable for his
absence is Trump who's overseen a change
of policy in the last two weeks pushing
for a quick end to the war and talks
with
Moscow at the UN later the general
assembly will vote on two rival
resolutions one put forward by
Washington and the other by Ukraine and
the European Union but Russia has come
out and said it wants a long-term peace
deal and not a quick us back ceasefire
Deputy foreign minister Sergey ryabov
says a deal must stand the test of
[Music]
time on the front lines fighting
continues unabated
yevhen kosov is the head medic at the
treatment site in the Deno Petrov
region he says around 70% of the
injuries on the battlefield come from
drone attacks but he adds that Ukrainian
soldiers are determined to fight on
despite the political battles with the
United States
[Music]
and for today's recommended read a
weekend concert in Damascus where
hundreds packed into a courtyard in The
Old City for a night of Music and Dance
it was a cultural event the singer
wasn't sure would go ahead as HTS
islamist Rebels Advanced on the city at
the end of last year but it got the
green light from the new authorities we
look at how islamists have taken
different approaches to artistic
expression and cultural heritage in
territories they've ruled there's a link
to the story in the pub description for
more on any of the stories from today
check out reuters.com or the reers app
don't forget to follow us on your
favorite podcast player and we'll be
back tomorrow with our daily headline
show
