today Donald Trump and Fran's Emanuel
macron meet to discuss Ukraine how
Germany's farle got a surge in support
and while the Chinese AI disruptor deep
seek Works to release a new version We
dig into what makes it so
successful it's Tuesday February 25th
this is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tara Oaks in Liverpool and I'm
Christopher wal Jasper in
Chicago US president Donald Trump says
he spoke to G7 leaders alongside French
president Emanuel macron noting that
everyone on the call expressed the goal
of seeing Russia's war in Ukraine come
to an end the details on how of course
are still being hammered out Trump says
the US is close to finalizing a deal
with Ukraine to access its mineral
wealth describing it as a sort of return
on investment for military aid already
sent you know we're in for $350 billion
how we got there I don't know but that's
a lot of money a lot of lot of money
invested and we had nothing nothing to
show for it our White House reporter
Andrea shalal covered the meeting with
macron which while friendly highlighted
the growing Rift between the US and the
EU mcon pushed back politely several
times where he sort of corrected the
president they get their money back no
in fact to be to be frank uh we paid we
paid 60% of and then there were other
instances throughout the press
conference where he differentiated his
position from that of trump to make
clear that Ukraine's sovereignty has to
be respected I I think it was really
notable that in the Oval Office Trump
also declined to call Putin a dictator
saying that he didn't use these words
lightly which was strange because of
course last week he called zinsky a
dictator and Trump keeps talking about
this critical mineral deal as as payment
for what the US has already put into the
war in Ukraine you know 60% of these
rare Earths and critical minerals are in
areas that are currently held by the
Russians and so the idea a was they
would enlist the US Aid to displace the
Russians from these areas and there'd be
more to go around but what came back to
them was a proposal that basically said
oh let's just focus on those things that
you already have and let's not worry
about ending the Russian occupation of
these other areas and by the way you
know it's all retroactive and it's
indefinite so it'll ensure that us
companies get a share of the profits of
Mining and Excavating these minerals
going forward to find out more about
what critical minerals actually are and
why they're so important check out our
latest edition of econ World podcast
there's a link in the Pod
[Music]
description sticking with rare
earth Russian President Vladimir Putin
has made the US an offer a deal for
joint exploration of Russia's rare earth
metals Plus the supply of
[Music]
aluminum and at the UN a stark shift on
Ukraine as the US sides with Russia the
UN General Assembly has backed a
resolution drafted by Ukraine and the EU
condemning Russia the US joined Russia
bellarus and North Korea in voting
against
it a second warning shot from Elon Musk
federal workers had until midnight
Monday to comply with the Doge order to
detail their accomplishments the
previous week push back from some US
Agencies meant musk's email went
unanswered the billionaire now says
they've got another chance to respond or
risk losing their
jobs in the occupied West Bank Israeli
bulldozers have demolished large areas
of the almost empty Janine refugee camp
Palestinians there fear a gazar
clearance as at least 40,000 flee their
homes Apple says it will spend $500
billion in the US over the next 4 years
the plan includes a giant Texas Factory
for AI servers as well as 20,000 R&D
jobs across the
[Music]
country as German conservative friek
matz looks to form a coalition he's
ruled out working with the far right afd
but there's another party which has
defined expectations and whose door he
is also unlikely to be knocking on Dinka
or the left is the successor to East
Germany's Communist party and they
scored 88.8% in Germany's federal
election their best result in years riam
aluza is here to explain why many
political analysts have said there has
been a shift to the right by the
traditional leftist party like the
greens and the SPD and that created
political vacuum for a more clearly
defined left and that was filled by the
hard left the left party D Linker also
the uh far left party Focus its campaign
on social justice issue like capping
rent abolishing taxes on food
introducing more social uh support for
lowincome families to be funded by the
wealthy and that resonated by many
voters the party is also strong on
social media that also made it reach
more more voters how did they use that
how did that win them votes over the
campaign yes so there has been a FY
speech by the leader of the party haid
rashik on Tik Tok that got over 6
million views rashik herself is very
popular on Tik Tok we're talking about
600,000 followers and 6 million likes
that compares for instance with
Chancellor Alf Schulz he has only
240,000 and followers Mass has even half
of that so the party was much more
present on Tik Tok also that enabled it
to reach many younger voters of course
afd was also present on Tik Tok for
instance Elis vial the leader of the
party has almost a million followers on
Tik Tok but she does have less likes
than the hardle party
[Music]
leader stocks are dropping and treasury
yields are slipping as the US China Tech
core ratchets up Carl crims is here with
more a report from Bloomberg that the
Trump Administration is planning to beef
up restrictions on the export of chips
to China particularly chips from AI
giant Nvidia has spooked investors it's
triggered a sell-off in Chinese
technology shares in particular gold on
the other hand is roaring ahead amid all
this uncertainty it set a new record
overnight and is tantalizingly close to
$3,000 an ounce if you're interested in
hearing about how high it might go tune
into a recent episode of reuter's econ
world it's all about the precious metal
you can catch it on the Reuters app or
wherever you get your
[Music]
podcasts and sticking with that us China
Tech
War the makers of deep seek the Chinese
AI model that triggered a trillion dooll
Global Equity selloff last month of
rushing to bring a successor to the
market but even as the quantitative
hedge fund company high flyer pushes to
innovate further the creation of deep
seek is coming into greater
focus our correspondent Eduardo Baptista
in Beijing has been digging into how the
company was able to build this
game-changing AI model highflyer was
very preent in the way that it started
to build huge Computing clusters way
before the Biden Administration started
to crack down on Chinese compan
companies trying to buy a bunch of very
Advanced us chips and create these very
powerful Computing clusters that can be
used for AI tasks highfly already had
one of the biggest clusters in Asia and
so highflyer stashing accumulation of
chips and creation of this very
impressive Computing cluster was
fundamental to uh deep seek success so
what's deep se's relationship with the
Chinese government highfly really had to
convince Regulators to not take any
action regarding its huge accumulation
of chips deep seeks success globally is
something that a lot of Chinese tech
companies that have received government
support and government backing have not
been able to do and so I think now the
relationship has completely changed so
you can think of it as high flyer was
one of perhaps several quantitative
hedge funds that were on the
government's radar as firms that had to
be monitored carefully and now it's the
darling of the government it's the new
national champion and it's getting a lot
of endorsements from the central
government which are translating to
companies adopting deep seek State on
Enterprise adopting deep seek local
governments embracing deep seek and so
now deep seek really is in the good
graces of the government how has deep
seek well as well as the Chinese
government responded to your reporting
so China's Comm Ministry and its
Securities Regulators did not respond uh
to our request for comment deep seek has
been told by government authorities to
keep a low profile and to not accept
media interviews without government
[Music]
approval and for today's recommended
read crypto trading is booming in
India's smaller cities and many young
Indians are dabbling in crypto to
supplement their regular incomes there's
a link to story in the Pod description
and for more on any of the stories from
today check out reuters.com or the
Reuters app don't forget to follow us on
your favorite podcast player we'll be
back tomorrow with our daily headline
show
