today the US Treasury says Chinese
hackers stole documents in a major
incident the Visa Feud rocking Trump's
base Ukraine and the US try to find
anti-russian common ground with Syria's
new rulers and the countdown before the
countdown Time Square prepares for New
Year's
Eve it's Tuesday December 31st this is
reuter world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tor Oaks in Liverpool and I'm Carmel
cmans in
Dublin Chinese state sponsored hackers
breached the treasury Department's
security guard rails this month and
stole documents in what it's calling a
major Incident That's according to a
letter to lawmakers that treasury
officials provide Ed to Reuters Kevin Ki
is our greater China bureau chief so
Kevin what's been China's response to
this so far it says the allegations are
groundless and they lack evidence it
says it opposes cyber intrusions hacks
of this kind and as it said today it's
even more opposed to spreading what
called false information against China
for political purposes and the Biden
presidency is ending what will these
allegations mean for relations with a
new Trump presidency I think the last
year us officials would characterize as
a steadi year period with cooperation in
some areas including us officials say in
efforts to try to engage China on
stopping the flow of Sentinel precursors
it's hard to know how the hacking
allegations fit into that bigger picture
the treasury incident that was disclosed
to us lawmakers on Monday is just the
latest in a run of these we had the hack
of us telecommunications networks
reports that Chinese state-backed
hackers had targeted senior us officials
and Trump and president-elect Vance's
phone lines as well and that as part of
that they had got into the system that
is used by the justice department for
wir Taps so they would have got Intel on
going us criminal investigations
including maybe counter Espionage
investigations we don't really know in
the treasury Department case I think yet
what documents they were able to acquire
but the US has defined this as what they
call an advanced persistent threat
clearly the intent was to hang around in
the network try to grab a sensitive or
classified material rather than trying
to crash the system it's also
significant that they targeted treasury
which of course is in charge of
implementing sanctions including
sanctions on China and China related
entities China in the earlier case had
also had a a vehement denial for very
much like The Wanted issued
[Music]
today supporters of South Korea's
impeached and suspended president Yun
Suk Yul in Soul hours after a court
approved his arrest
warrant it's the first time a sitting
South Korean president has faced
arrest Yun is accused of leading an
insurrection after his failed attempt to
impose martial law earlier this
month actors Angelina Jolie and Brad Pit
have reached a divorce settlement her
lawyer says bringing an end to one of
Hollywood's most contentious and closely
followed celebrity splits Jolie
originally filed for divorce 8 years ago
no details of a settlement were
immediately revealed Pit's
Representatives did not immediately
responds to a request for
comment Donald Trump has lost his appeal
against a $5 million verdict that eege
Carroll won against the president elect
when he was found liable for sexually
abusing and later defaming the former
magazine
columnist a federal appeals court
rejected Trump's argument that the trial
judge should not have let jurors hear
evidence about the Republican's alleged
past sexual
[Music]
misconduct Chinese president XI Jin ping
says the country is set to hit its
official growth Target for this year
China's gross domestic product is
expected to have expanded by around 5%
in
2024 that's according to New Year's Eve
remarks by shei and he signaled that
support for the economy will continue
into next year it caps a year of
uncertainty for the world's second
largest economy and for its millions of
University graduates that's a topic we
dug into in my podcast econ world you
you can find a link to that episode with
the title rotten tail kids in the
description to Today's Show and I'll be
back with a new episode of econ world
next week all about the world's favorite
shiny metal
[Music]
gold over the holidays a fight over
immigrant visas broke out among
supporters of Donald Trump and Elon Musk
has waited in too defending the use of
the H1B Visa program which has brought
skilled foreign workers into the US
White House correspondent Nandita Bose
is in West Palm Beach covering the
president elect so Nandita first who is
this Visa program for so H1B visas are
for foreign Tech workers it's a skilled
worker visa that has been in the eye of
the storm since the last time Trump was
elected and the tech industry relies
very heavily on this visa to hire for
foreign workers to run their companies
and this is what you know a lot of
company CEOs will talk about is that
there isn't a lot of homegrown talent to
fill those roles and that's kind of the
central tension in this debate right
it's pitting Trump's traditional base
against his allies in Silicon Valley so
this is clearly an issue that is
dividing his base and Trump gave an
interview to the New York Post saying
that he's in favor of these visas and
that is a bit shocking because of you
know his position in the past on this
musk was very clear that any debate on
immigration shouldn't touch the H1B
category because of how much the tech
industry relies on it then there is
Trump's base which includes a lot of
immigration hardliners like Laura lomer
of course Steve Ben and their
fundamental argument is bringing in
foreign workers undercuts wages for
Americans and you know takes away
opportunities for them and Trump ran on
that platform and he needs to deliver on
that of course that is now pitting them
against an industry that has helped
Trump win this time and these CEOs have
a seat at the table this time and
they're like we're not going to let the
Bandon of the world get their way when
it comes to Skilled workers and
Engineers they can have their way when
it comes to Illegal immigration and
people coming in through the southern
border but outside of that we need to be
careful about you know how we're doing
this
Syria's new foreign minister told his
Ukrainian counterpart on Monday that his
country hopes for strategic Partnerships
with Ukraine amid waning Russian
influence Kiev is moving to build ties
with the new islamist rulers in Damascus
as are many other countries including
the US Don dery is our US foreign policy
editor Don has been the reaction to the
new Syrian rulers so far us officials
say so far that they're encouraged but
cautious right they have the example of
the Taliban which had come in with a
sort of more moderate rhetoric before it
overtook Afghanistan only to sort of go
back to its very fundamentalist Roots so
if you look at Russian influence for
example there is no love lost between
the new leaders and the Russians right
the Russians of course supported Assad
killed a lot of rebels as well as
civilians during this long Civil War but
Al Shara came out to say recently that
Russia and Syria have Mutual strategic
interests so they're not closing the
door to the Russians but not you know
making any promises just yet we had the
Ukrainian foreign minister in the
country recently trying to sort of build
up closer relations and promising food
Aid to Syria so there are a lot of
different powers you're sort of jostling
for
influence 5 4 3 2 1 happy New
Year not yet folks but good good to know
you're ready this was Monday's test of
the New Year's Eve crystal ball drop
above Time
Square and just to be sure they've also
tested the confetti throw are we ready
down
there there we go 5 4 3 2 1 happy New
Year it means everything is now in place
for when Â£3,000 of confetti are dropped
by hand from nearby buildings at
[Applause]
[Music]
midnight our recommended content today
is to follow reuter's live page as we
share New Year celebrations as they
happen around the world you'll see
pictures and video from Australia Asia
Europe and finally the us as we welcome
in 2025 there's a link to the live page
in today's pod description for more on
any of the stories from today check out
reuters.com or the Reuters app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player there's no episode on New
Year's Day so we'll be back on Thursday
with our daily headline show Happy New
Year from all of us at Reuters world
news
