today Trump speaks with Putin and
advises him not to escalate the war in
Ukraine what Trump's presidency means
for the Pentagon and for Elon Musk and
how the next us Administration looms
large over cop climate
[Music]
talks it's Monday November 11th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front line in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Carmel crims in
Dublin first to the war in Ukraine where
we've seen some of the largest drone
attacks by each side since the start of
the
conflict the exchanges over the weekend
saw Ukraine attacking Moscow with dozens
of drones that followed Russia's launch
of more than 100 of them on Saturday the
escalating tension reflects a wider
nervousness in Ukraine on what will
happen when Donald Trump returns to the
White House Trump has already spoken
with Russian President Vladimir Putin in
a telephone call where he advised him
not to escalate the War President Joe
Biden has invited Trump to the White
House on Wednesday where he's likely to
push his successor to continue to
support keev and you can get an in-depth
look at what a second Trump presidency
means for the war in our weekend episode
there's a link in today's part
[Music]
description Trump's language during his
campaign not only has Ukraine worried
he's also vowed to purge the US military
of what he called woke generals now the
question in the halls of the Pentagon is
whether he will go much further Phil
Stewart has been looking at this I think
Trump learned a lot of tough lessons in
his first term and his view of the US
military going into his second term is
going to be a lot darker than it was in
2016 he surrounded himself with these
well-known military leaders like Jim
Mattis and John Kelly who was his chief
of staff and he thought by bringing
these people on you know he would have
know really tough leaders who would
would help enact his policy vision and
instead these people turned into some of
his absolute fiercest critics I think he
is going to be looking for based on
everything we've heard from current and
former officials and people who were you
know Republic in his administration he's
going to be looking for people that are
a lot more loyal to him and ready to
carry out his vision and if us generals
and career Pentagon officials are
unwilling to do that he's going to be
ready to fire them culture War issues
are a particular pressure point right
Trump has really focused a lot of his
Firepower in the campaign on attacking
what he called the woke military and
when he was doing that he would often
refer to transgender troops the term
itself has been used by his allies in
Congress to also go after those members
of the military that would be supporting
diversity equity and inclusion
initiatives and so I I I feel like it's
a very broad term and if he goes through
and and gets rid of the woke generals
you could see quite a lot of firings the
Trump transition team did not respond to
a request for
comment the president-elect is moving
quickly on the domestic front as well
Trump has announced that Tom Homan the
former acting director of Immigration
and Customs Enforcement will be in
charge of the country's borders calling
him the bordar in a post on his truth
social platform and Trump's Ally Elon
Musk has endorsed Republican senator
Rick Scott for Senate Majority Leader
Trump has not yet endorsed anyone in the
race Qatar has told Hamas and Israel
that it will stall its own efforts to
mediate a Gaza ceas
until both sides show quote willingness
and seriousness to resume talks at least
40 Palestinians were killed by Israeli
strikes across Gaza on Sunday that's
according to Palestinian Health
officials and a Human Rights
group Dutch police say they bust more
than 300 Pro Palestinian protesters and
dropped them off on the outskirts of the
capital for ignoring a ban on
demonstrations in
Amsterdam 50 more were detained
following clashes involving Israeli
soccer fans last
[Music]
week hundreds of demonstrators had
gathered in the capital's Dam Square on
Sunday chanting Amsterdam says no to
genocide the ban on demonstrations is
extended until Thursday after last
week's attack on Israeli soccer
supporters following a match between
macabi Tel Aviv and ax
Amsterdam over on markets Bitcoin is
hitting record highs the cryptocurrency
has rallied past
$81,000 boosted by Donald Trump's
support for digital assets and the
prospect of a crypto-friendly
congress Trump vowed to make the United
States the crypto capital of the planet
during his presidential campaign and the
industry spent more than $119 million
backing Pro crypto congressional
candidates by and large that bet has
paid off and it's now hoping that means
Congress Champion crypto like never
before Elon Musk is another big champion
of crypto and also of course Donald
Trump his support of trump in the final
months of his presidential campaign was
boisterous and generous president Trump
must win to preserve the Constitution he
must win to preserve Democracy in
America musk contributed more than $100
million to to a prot trump super Pac
leading up to the presidential
election now the world's richest man is
in position to exert substantial
influence over federal agencies and
policies that directly impact his
businesses Trump has even said musk will
head up efforts to reduce government
spending through his proposed government
efficiency commission and Elon because
he's not very
busy has agreed to head that task force
be interesting if he has the time
that'll be a good one to do it but he's
agreed to do
it Rachel Levy has been looking into how
Elon musk's businesses and federal
agencies are entangled so we don't know
exactly how this efficiency effort on
mus part will shape out at the same time
there are several federal agencies that
interact and regulate mus businesses
that could include for example the FDA
the FDA regulates medical device
and he has a brain ship company called
neurolink that needs FDA approval Tesla
is regulated it's enforcer essentially
is an agency called the national highway
traffic safety administration and
they're looking at safety of cars you
know what we're driving on the road and
what our sources told us is that he
could urge the administration to fire
officials that he doesn't like that
stand in his way for his companies he
could roll back regulations that keep
SpaceX from being able to do what it
wants or Tesla from being able to do
what it wants neither NASA nor OSHA
which regulates worker safety has taken
any significant enforcement action
against SpaceX over worker injuries my
colleague Mara Taylor had really great
investigation about worker injuries at
SpaceX so when we're talking about sort
of a deregulatory environment for must
company is there wasn't necessarily a
super strong regulatory arm in the first
place Tesla SpaceX neuralink and musk
did not respond to requests for comment
the Trump campaign called musk a once in
a generation industry leader in a
statement to
reers the annual un climate Summit kicks
off today in azer Ban's Capital Baku
world leaders from major economies
including the United States are skipping
this year's meeting which comes just
days after the election of Donald Trump
a climate change denier we caught up
with Valerie vavich to find out how
Trump's win is impacting discussions
Trump has said that he would withdraw
the United States from the Paris
agreement again and despite a lot of
positive talk that the energy transition
is moving forward countries realize that
without the United States there as a
major player It cast a kind of dark
shadow over the talks and what can be
achieved and this year's talks focus on
reaching a new goal goal for mobilizing
climate Finance to help the world's most
vulnerable countries deal with the
impacts of climate change without the US
in the discussions I think that people's
Ambitions are lower so I think that
really is the elephant in the room and
if you're interested in climate Finance
check out our reuter's econ World
podcast on carbon markets and how
they're used to address climate change
we'll drop a link to that episode in our
pod description
today's recommended read takes a look at
Michigan and how CA Harris has lost
there underlines the Democrats weak
spots she lost the state by more than
880,000 votes as union workers black
voters Arab Americans and Muslims either
fail to go to the polls or cast their
ballots for Donald Trump you can find a
link to the story in today's pod
description and for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app to never miss an
episode subscribe on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back tomorrow
with our daily headline show
