today Trump threatens to retake the
Panama Canal what we know so far about
the suspect in Friday's German Christmas
Market attack and how American consumers
are getting in the holiday spirit
without the
spirits it's Monday December
23rd this is Reuters world news bringing
you everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Torah Oaks in
[Music]
Liverpool we're being ripped off at the
Panama Canal like we're being ripped off
everywhere else president-elect Donald
Trump threatening to reassert us control
over the Panama Canal accusing Panama of
charging excessive rates to use the
Central American
passage speaking to a crowd of
supporters in Arizona Trump also said he
would not let the canal fall into the
wrong hands warning of potential Chinese
influence on the passage during his term
in office it was solely for Panama to
manage and not for China or any other
country to manage in a recorded message
Panama's president Jose Raul Molino said
that Panama's Independence was
non-negotiable and that China had no
influence on the Canal's Administration
Molino's statement posted on X saying
every square meter of a Panama Canal and
the surrounding area belongs to Panama
Trump then responded to Molino we'll see
about that Trump's comments are an
exceedingly rare example of a US leader
saying he could push a sovereign country
to hand over territory they also
underlined an expected shift in US
diplomacy under Trump who has not
historically shied away from threatening
allies and using Bello r brick when
dealing with
counterparts striking Starbucks workers
in California the coffee chains
employees have expanded their strike to
four more cities including New York
Philadelphia St Louis and locations in
New Jersey that's according to Workers
United the union representing over
10,000
Baristas initially we intended to use
this press conference to ask for the
Public's help in identifying and
locating someone who we believe carried
out one of the most depraved crimes one
person could possibly commit against
another human being and it took the life
of an innocent New Yorker New York
Police Commissioner Jessica Tish
announcing the arrest of a man suspected
of setting a woman on fire with a
lighter while she appeared to be asleep
on the F train at the Coney Island
Stillwell Avenue subway station police
say there was no interaction before the
attack and they did not believe the two
people knew each other the victim has
not yet been
identified Albania will shut down Tik
Tok for a year after the killing of a
teenager that has raised fears over the
influence of social media on children
the decision comes after a 14-year-old
boy was stabbed to death in November by
a fellow student local media report that
the incident followed arguments between
the two on social media videos also
surfaced on Tik Tok of miners supporting
in the
stabbing a bridge connecting two states
in Brazil's North has collapsed killing
at least one person and spilling
sulfuric acid into the totins River
Authorities say the central span of the
bridge gave way plunging a tanker truck
carrying the acid into the
[Music]
[Applause]
water Hond and Nissan have agreed to
explore a merger and set up a joint
holding company which would create the
world's third largest automaker it
signals a massive shift in an industry
under tremendous upheaval the two
companies would aim for Combined sales
of
$191 billion to the potential merger
they said in a statement the
consolidation would create the world's
third largest Auto Group by vehicle
sales after Toyota and Volkswagen as
Legacy car makers face growing
challenges from Tesla and Chinese rivals
horror at a Christmas Market in magur
Germany after a car plowed through
crowds in an attack that killed five
people and injured scores the suspect
faces multiple charges of murder and
attempted murder Rachel Mo in Berlin has
the latest we know about him so the
suspect has been identified as a
50-year-old man from Saudi Arabia but he
moved to Germany in
2006 what's interesting about him is
that he doesn't fit the typical mold for
an attack like this he had worked to
help Saudi Arabians who had turned their
back on Islam to seek asylum in Europe
but what we can see from his social
media activity is that the man's
political views were pretty radical he
has criticized Islam as a barbaric
religion and he sided with Far Right
parties such as the alternative for
Germany or
IFD he had also voiced his support for
Elon Musk on X musk's social media
platform and had become increasingly
frustrated with the German authorities
and what's been the reaction in Germany
so far yeah so what we should say for
now is that the motive is still unclear
so there has been a lot of shock and
grief in response to the attack but
there's also been a lot of debate online
about the man's migrant background about
his political views and this all comes
at a time when German politics is
already pretty deeply polarized we are
gearing up for SNAP elections here in
February and the far right IFD which uh
the suspect had expressed support for
online is polling in second place and
hoping for its strongest result yet so
we've seen these scenes of mourning but
we've also seen the ifda trying to
capitalize on some of the uncertainty
around migration and security we've also
seen in magdor itself farri protests
there were some scuffles on Saturday
night so they haven't been entirely
peaceful and some of the protesters were
calling for remigration
which is a term used on the far right to
talk about the mass deportation of
migrants and anyone who's not considered
ethnically
German across the United States
financially squeezed Americans are
cutting their holiday booze spending
that doesn't mean they're not getting a
buzz but they are changing their
drinking habits reporter Emma Romney has
been looking at the new trends and what
they mean for the spirits industry so
Spirits wholesalers and and bar owners
told me that you know that hasn't it
hasn't changed that people kind of want
to celebrate and and go out and be
together um they just have less cash in
their wallets than they did a year or
two ago so difficult economic conditions
like high inflation or squeezing
people's incomes and they're just having
to be a bit more careful about how much
booze they buy or the type of booze they
buy or where they buy it and that means
some kind of pricier types of of liquor
have seen consumers trade down into a
slightly cheaper version or bars and
restaurants aren't seeing as many big
bookings or people buying as many drinks
as they did before the months of October
November and December are some of the
most critical for the industry because
holiday gifting and celebrations tend to
drive a lot more sales than usual so big
Spirits producers said um you know in
the past over the past year that they've
been trying to address these changes in
K consumer Behavior with um for example
discounts on promotions or or promotions
on struggling Labs um or by offering
smaller pack sizes to make them more
accessible and then we know from some of
the the wholesalers that that partner
with the big Spirits producers that
they've also been um working on better
advertising on platforms like door Dash
which should cater to people that are
celebrating at home more given the
importance of holiday sales what impact
is this having on The Wider industry for
some people at least it leaves a bit of
a question mark over the major producers
key strategy which is to get people
paying more for the alcohol that they
buy and and get them you know uh
graduating to more expensive types of
alcohol or more expensive Brands and the
recent us trading has has left some
people or some investors worrying that
that strategy has kind of run out of
steam or it can't deliver at the same
rate that it used
[Music]
to and for today's recommended read a
story about Sen local toy makers who are
experiencing a pre-Christmas demand boom
mostly Muslim Sagal has a strong
tradition of different religions
embracing each other's holidays and
sellers are hoping to win a slice of the
market with toys that reflect the
country's culture you can find a link to
the story in the Pod description and
don't forget to check out our weekend
episode which landed on Saturday all
about weight loss drugs for more on any
of the stories from today check out
reuters.com or the Reuters app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player and we'll be back
tomorrow with our daily headline show
