today Donald Trump's crypto Venture
raises concerns for ethics and financial
crimes experts FBI director Chris Ray
resigns what's next for the agency and
Europe grapples with the future of its
Syrian migrant
[Music]
population it's Thursday December 12th
this is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Christopher wal Jasper in Chicago
and I'm Tara Oaks in
Liverpool FBI director Christopher Ray
will resign at the end of President
Biden's term I've decided the right
thing for the bureau is for me to serve
until the end of the current
Administration in January and then step
down Ray's announcement comes after
president-elect Donald Trump signaled
plans to replace him with Ally cash
Patel at a town hall Ray told FBI staff
that his decision was not easy but he
wanted to avoid quote dragging the
bureau deeper into the fry Sarah Lynch
covers the justice department
president-elect Donald Trump has long
actually wanted to get rid of him so I
think Chris Ray realized that he could
either step aside and perhaps reduce
some of the drama that would come with
him being fired once Trump takes office
because it was quite inevitable that
Trump had no plans to keep him around
and wants to get cash pel in the job as
soon as he can so Trump's found more of
a a loyalist in Patel well sure so cash
Patel has written a book where he's been
very critical of the FBI and the justice
department he has said that the uh
intelligence gathering role that it
plays is too unwieldy and problematic he
points to to mistakes that the FBI made
when they were investigating Donald
Trump's campaign back in 2016 so it'll
be interesting to see how it will play
out South Korea's president Yun sakol
vowing to fight to the end speaking as
his own political party shifted closer
to voting with the opposition to impeach
him over a short-lived martial law order
Israelis and Palestinians are signaling
new efforts to forge a ceasefire deal if
agreed it will be the first time in a
year for an agreement to pause the
fighting in Gaza and return to Israel
some of the hostages still held in the
Palestinian
Enclave Saudi Arabia will host the men's
soccer World Cup in 2034 while the 2030
Edition will be held in six countries
across the world the choice of Saudi
Arabia has been criticized because of a
country human rights record and desert
climate the country denies accusations
of Human Rights abuses and says it
protects its National Security through
its
[Music]
laws donations have been pouring in for
the legal defense of suspected United
Health CEO shooter Luigi
Manon more than $40,000 have been raised
as of Thursday on give and go
alone a new Reuters ipsos poll shows
that Americans are growing less
welcoming towards immigrants in the US
illegally since Donald Trump's first
presidency around 33% of respondents
said that most or all immigrants without
legal status should be allowed to stay
in the United States that's down from
39% back in
2017 Donald Trump's pick for Federal
Trade commissioner is sending positive
signals to the tech industry Trump has
tapped Andrew Ferguson this week to
replace Lena Khan whose term expired in
September
Ferguson is expected to have a softer
regulatory
approach inflation data out of the US is
boosting expectations of a Fed rate cut
next week and that's good news for tech
stocks Carl grimn in New York has more
so the tech heavy NASDAQ climbed above
the 20,000 Mark for the first time with
the so-called magnificent 7 once again
leading the the charge shares of Tesla
and Google parent alphabet both hitting
fresh record highs now us consumer
prices did increase by the most in seven
months in November that means inflation
is still stubbornly above the fed's 2%
Target but the Figures were in line with
expectations and there was progress in
some areas rents which has been one of
the stickier components of inflation
rising at the slowest Pace in nearly 3
and a half years and for all you econ
Buffs out there this week's episode of
econ World podcast is now out focusing
on Coco take a listen wherever you get
your
[Music]
podcasts a crypto Venture launched by
president- elect Donald Trump and his
new Middle East Envoy billionaire Steve
witkoff has partnered with the crypto
platform known as
Tron that platform according to
financial experts is used by criminals
and militant groups that includes Hamas
and Hezbollah according to Israeli
authorities and financial crime experts
Reuters could not independently verify
that Hamas and Hezbollah have used Tron
government ethics experts say that world
Liberty Financial Incorporated which was
set up by the Trump and wickoff Families
2 months before the election presents
multiple concerns over ethics and
conflicts of
interest reporter Alexandra Elma has the
story so Tron is a crypto platform that
is associated with groups designated as
Terror organizations by Israel the
United States and other countries it has
become a vehicle of choice because it is
quicker and cheaper than Bitcoin
according to the experts we spoke to and
seven Financial crime experts in
cryptocurrency flagged this worry to
Reuters over the last few years and in
fact Israel's National Bureau for
counterterror financing froze 186 Tron
wallets between July 2021 and this month
because they belied they were connected
to quote design ated terrorist
organizations or used for severe Terror
crime and you've spoken with government
ethics experts what are their concerns
so one ethics expert I spoke to put it
very succinctly she said there are red
flags all over this she said there were
concerns in particular from a national
security standpoint and also from an
ethical standpoint because both
president-elect Donald Trump and his new
Middle East Envoy Steve witkoff benefit
financially from World Liberty Financial
can you give me an example of how this
platform might be used for ill purposes
so the ethics experts we spoke to
highlighted two main areas of concern
the first one is that wit koff's policy
recommendations for the Middle East
could be affected or swayed by what he
sees as beneficial to World Liberty
Financial given he still has a financial
stake in that company and secondly these
ethics experts also voice concern that
this crypto company could be used as a
way for actors to try to ingratiate
themselves with Trump because he too
benefits financially for moral Liberty
financial and so what is trun saying
about these findings Tron says it's
trying to address the risk of elicit
activities on its networks it launched
an effort in September in collaboration
with law enforcement and that has frozen
approximately 70 million in illicit
funds according to what the company told
us now a spokesperson for Trump and his
transition team did not directly respond
to questions about Trump's Financial
ties to World Liberty the Tron
investment and potential conflicts of
interest his son Eric told Reuters that
the use of crypto by criminal groups was
quote everybody's foremost concern but
he said that the crypto industry will do
a great job of policing itself when it
comes to elicit
flows is
this of is Amed abas has been living in
Germany for 12 years since fleeing Syria
after being injured in homs and he feels
torn he's considering whether to return
to his homeland following the fall of
Bashar al-assad's regime but with the
country's future still uncertain he's
conflicted it's a dilemma facing the
more than 1 million syrians living in
Europe most of whom are in Germany and
it's a problem for those with
outstanding Asylum Seeker applications
here to unpack it for us is rham aluza
in Berlin within 24 hours from us
heartfall as several European countries
including Germany Greece and France
announced uh suspending the processing
of Syrian Asylum Seekers we're talking
about tens of thousands of cases because
the situation in Syria uh remains
unclear how is this playing into
Germany's upcoming election for those
syrians who are in the country with a
secure status many German see that it's
time to take care of the Guan refugees
and those whose country is now deemed
safe I should go back to their country
far right parties and conservative
parties are trying to use this rhetoric
within 24 hours of Assad fall we show
conservative lawmakers proposing charter
flights and a, EUR startup payment from
the German government to encourage
syrians to go back to their countries at
the same time syrians have been
integrated in the job market almost 60%
of those who came in 2015 and 2016 are
now part of the job market and sir for
instance they make the biggest foreign
group in the health sector as doctors so
we're talking about over 5,000 Syrian
doctors that feel a huge labor shortage
in the health sector for
[Music]
doctors to Australia now for today's
recommended read which is all about how
an AI powered robot cattle herder is
preventing soil degradation you can read
more about the swag bot in the link in
today's description for more on any of
the stories from today's show check out
reuters.com or the Reuters app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back tomorrow
with our daily headline show
