today fears of an economic downturn see
the US Stock Market lose 4 trillion in
value why farmers are struggling under
Trump's tariffs and spending cuts and a
hearing into death of soccer Superstar
[Music]
maradon it's Tuesday March 11th this is
reuter world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Jonah Green in New York and I'm Tara
Oaks in
Liverpool we start in the
Philippines the supporters of Rodrigo
duterte are rallying outside the air
base where he's being held the
ex-president was arrested in manila's
airport at the request of the
international criminal court it's a
major step in the icc's investigation
into the thousands of alleged
extrajudicial killings in duterte's
signature War on Drugs the 79-year-old
has repeatedly defended the drug
Crackdown he denies ordering the murders
of drug suspects and says he instructed
the police to kill in self-defense
[Applause]
only on Monday US Stock markets suffered
their largest drop since president
Donald Trump took office with tech
shares falling at their fastest Pace
since 2022 and trillions of dollars
wiped off the S&P 500 and the mood in
financial markets is still skittish Carl
cmans is here to tell us what's going on
so what started as a stock market
selloff accelerated to a full Retreat we
saw corporate bond sales scrapped Delta
Airlines cutting its profit expectations
due to economic uncertainty and
treasuries rallying as they took on that
safe haven role so what's triggered it
well Trump's trade War and the cuts to
federal spending are darkening the
economic Outlook but I think crucially
signals from Trump and his advisers that
there needs to be some near-term pain
while his policies take effect has
really spooked people it has markets
preparing for the possibility of a
recession and they're now pricing in a
50/50 chance of a Fed rate cut in May I
thought the markets were very bullish on
Trump well they were the period between
his election and his inauguration were a
boom time for stocks investors were
betting on tax cuts and deregulation to
power returns but the mood has soured
over what tariffs and spending cuts
could mean for growth so where do we go
from here so the global selloff eased a
bit and US Stock Futures have recovered
somewhat but the mood is still very
fragile Trump is meeting with us
Business Leaders later today so it's
going to be interesting to hear what he
has to say to them you know will it be
words of reassurance or more like a
fasten your seat belt kind of chat we'll
have to just wait and see
[Music]
Trump's tariffs have not just provoked
chaos in the markets it's causing stress
and confusion in the farm belt an area
where Trump has historically enjoyed
widespread support us farmers are also
grappling with a pause in federal
spending and a freeze on most
humanitarian Aid as well Leah Douglas
has been covering the story well we
spoke to more than two dozen farmers and
food or Farm organizations in seven
states and they all were reporting some
amount of grant funding that was Frozen
from the US government and from the US
Department of Agriculture the impacts
are really broad we spoke to one farmer
in Montana who has been waiting on a
$648,000 grant from USDA to build a feed
mill that would serve area farmers and
with that money Frozen um now that
project has been delayed we've talked to
some organizations that have laid-off
staff and Farmers that are making
different planting decisions or
potentially losing customers who
themselves are waiting on grants from
the USDA and I was surprised to read in
your piece that they're also affected by
foreign aid Cuts as well that's right so
us Farmers sell a significant amount of
us Commodities into the foreign aid
infrastructure so those are Commodities
that the US government is donating
sending abroad into different
development programs and with a lot of
disruption to usaid the dismantling of
that organization and disruption to
foreign aid in general that's me a lot
of confusion in farm country and we
first started off with the in the goat
business so another set of farmers that
we spoke to Ed and Becky Morgan who have
a livestock Farm in Shanks West Virginia
and they liked our sausage like cool
this is viable they have been growing
their business selling flavored sausages
and breakfast sausage links to public
schools in their area that's been a
great booming area of business for them
but now those schools which were waiting
on grants from the USDA for food
programs are themselves wondering
whether they'll be able to continue with
those purchases which is putting Ed and
Becky in a tough situation and on the
tariffs Trump says Farmers should just
produce Goods to sell domestically
instead of exporting how do they feel
about that idea Farm groups and Farmers
have been pretty critical of President
Trump's proposals of tariffs that will
affect us Farm Goods the domestic Farm
economy is really relying on export
markets we grow huge amounts of corn and
soy and other grains for export and
those products can't be easily
redirected to be sold inside the United
States so it's caused a lot of concern
the secretary of agriculture Brook
Rollins has said that the agency is
starting to release some of this Frozen
money but did not answer questions about
how much has been released or what the
timetable is for
that Ukraine has launched its biggest
drone attack yet on the Russian Capital
at least 91 drones have been downed over
Moscow the drones have sparked fires and
forced airports to shut and flights to
dive
out a tanker carrying jet fuel for the
US military was hit by a Portuguese
flagged container ship off Northeast
England on Monday the Collision set both
vessels Ablaze and forced both Crews to
abandon
ship a judge has temporarily blocked the
deportation of the Palestinian student
arrested at Columbia University and a
hearing has been scheduled for Wednesday
Mahmud Khalil is currently in a federal
jail for migrants in
Louisiana today kicks off the trial of
several medical professionals in
Argentina charged with the death of
football Superstar Diego maradana in
November of 2020 mardon's heart failure
just days after a brain surgery was
reviewed by a medical board which said
his Healthcare team acted in an quote
inappropriate deficient and Reckless
manner the medical team generally
rejects the charges here to explain is
our bureau chief for southern Latin
America Adam Jordan the focus of the
case is whether the defendants all part
of maradona's medical team we're talking
nurses we're talking psychiatrists and a
brain surgeon whether they were culpable
in his death what the doctors and his
medical team say was that he was a
difficult patient it was hard to treat
him he didn't want to to be treated in a
hospital he wanted to be at home now
maradon had been unwell in various forms
for years he suffered with addictions of
alcohol and cocaine what his family and
prosecutors say is that the doctors did
not do enough knowing that he was unwell
knowing that he had various
complications so on that is basically
what this whole case rests was it their
fault was maradon just too difficult to
look after and too sick and they
couldn't have done anything about it
maradana is one of the most beloved
players of the game of all time arguably
so how are fans reacting the thing in
Argentina is that maradana is just a
figure that is bigger than life he is
everywhere you see him on murals on the
side of buildings you see him on tattoos
of football fans and he's revered to
such an extent that when he did die he
lay in state here in buos ciris there
were tens of thousands of people that
thronged into the streets to go and see
him an outpouring of grief
and that has led to a situation where
people feel very invested in his death
there's an emotional element to it
beyond the deaths of most celebrities or
or
icons Pope Francis is no longer in
immediate danger of death and is
responding well to treatment in the
hospital the Vatican said says the
88-year-old pontiff has battled double
pneumonia for 3
weeks truckloads of green coffee beans
are being reported stolen across the
United States as prices for the beans
increase to all-time highs and if you
want to learn more about coffee's Rising
prices check out our econ World podcast
all about coffee we'll put a link in the
description
[Music]
and for today's recommended read the
scientists who are trying to save the
endangered ocelot there are fewer than
100 left in the US and scientists are
trekking across the country trying
fertility treatments and working to
Kickstart a new generation of the wild
cut there's a link for story in the pot
description for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuter . or
the Reuters app don't forget to follow
us on your favorite podcast player we'll
be back tomorrow with our daily headline
show
