today Marco Rubio's Middle East trip is
underway where he expects talks with
Russian officials on the war in Ukraine
how Argentina took a chainsaw to its
government a year before Elon musk's
Doge and the headache of closing a
loophole for lowcost
imports it's Monday February 17th this
is roor world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tara Oaks in
Lial US Secretary of State Marco Rubio
has arrived in Saudi Arabia for talks
with Russian officials aimed at ending
moscow's nearly three-year war in
Ukraine the talks come after president
Donald Trump spoke to Russian President
Vladimir Putin by phone European leaders
are anxious that Trump and Putin will do
a Ukraine peace deal that undermines
keev and broader European security
Rachel Armstrong is our Europe editor
Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin have
both said that they want to meet each
other in person so these talks will
likely be aimed at laying the ground for
where and when today will be the first
opportunity for Russia to have an
in-person meeting at a high level with
the US to set out their terms for any
kind of ceasefire what we don't know is
whether the US will then use that as an
opportunity to start sketching out a
broader deal or whether they will Solly
be in listening mode and will be going
away to talk with their Ukrainian and
European counterparts afterwards yeah
Rubio said yesterday that Ukraine and
Europe would be part of any real
negotiations to end the war but Europe
have been caught on the Hop a bit by
Trump's recent Ukraine moves right I
think many European governments are
feeling very confused right now
Keith Kellogg who has the title of the
Ukraine Envoy in the US Administration
said that Europeans would not be
involved in the discussions that sent
many of them reeling Rubio tried to walk
some of that back afterwards and said
that there would be a role for Europe
however the issues that Europeans have
to deal with are not ones that will be
surprising to the governments they know
that there is an expectation that Europe
will provide some kind of security
guarantees in Ukraine they know there is
an expectation that European governments
will have to spend a lot more money on
defense for Ukraine because the US is no
longer dealing with that up until now
though those questions have been so
difficult politically and financially
for European governments that they
haven't come up with a solution there's
this meeting in Paris today with a
select group of European leaders Britain
has come out and said they will be
willing to send peacekeeping troops into
Ukraine it would be very interesting to
hear what the Germans less than a week
away from their election say on
something like that which would likely
be pretty unpopular domestically to do
[Music]
that President Donald Trump's
Administration has asked the US Supreme
Court to intervene in its bid to fire
the head of an independent US agency
that protects government
whistleblowers the case has not yet been
do Ed by the
court Chinese president Xi Jinping has
held a rare meeting with Business
Leaders Alibaba co-founder Jack Mah was
one of the attendees the Symposium comes
as Beijing grapples with the slowing
economy and growing us
tensions South Korea's data protection
authority says new downloads of a
Chinese AI app deep seek have been
suspended in the country that's after
deep seek acknowledged failing to take
into account some of the a gen's rules
on protecting personal
data Israel has received a shipment of
heavy mk84 bombs from the United States
Trump says he's lifted a Biden era block
on the export despite a ceasefire
agreement Because he believes in peace
through
strength Argentina's president Javier
Malay could face an impeachment trial in
Congress after touting a cryptocurrency
which crashed soon after mle late on
Friday posted on X recommending the
little known crypto coin Libra which
soon after shot up to nearly $5 a piece
just hours later the cryptocurrency
plummeted to under $1 Argentina's
fintech chamber acknowledged that the
case could potentially be a rug pull
that's when developers of a crypto token
draw legitimate Investments pumping up
the value only to later dump their stake
Malay himself deleted the post on X and
said he had no relation to the
cryptocurrency mala's crypto misstep
comes after Elon Musk has praised his
cutbacks for helping Argentina overturn
a deep fiscal deficit after years of
overspending while bringing down triple
digit
inflation a reporter Lucinda Elliot
recently traveled to Buenos Aus to sit
down with mus equivalent in Argentina a
man named Federico
schena I went along to his ministry of
deregulation and transformation of the
state in downtown Bueno Sidis there was
a biography of Elon Musk and this mini
figurine of the Argentine president
Javier mle wielding a chainsaw it's a
symbol that he's adopted as part of his
government's cost cutting drive so
stener has been taking AXS to the
government there in Buenos AIS for a
little over a year now what's been the
result so spending cuts last year
reached close to 5% of Argentina's GDP
as the Government tried to get the
country's finances back in order
actually workers on the state payroll
fell by around 10% last year that's
nearly 40,000 jobs and obviously to get
there mle has really taken aim at red
tape that's just wrapped around tin
areas from things like rent control and
generic medicine to farm export taxes
and the charges for your electric
vehicle he's downgraded many Ministries
including the Ministry of Education of
Labor Social Development to reduce
spending but he has increased direct
payouts to the poorest which for now has
helped to temper protests and wider
public anger Argentina has returned to a
fiscal Surplus inflation really has
called poverty however has really risen
it reached nearly 5 3% in the first half
of 2024 but that's now starting to come
down so what's next for mle and schena
and Argentina's economy as a whole so
the government has authority to continue
cutting in the way that it has until
about June that will Mark a year of
emergency measures that was granted by
Congress to push deregulation by decree
and then the government has midterm
elections later this year and that's
really where Malay is hoping to build on
his very small minority in Congress and
in the Senate so that he has backing
from a broader group to push through
this reform
[Music]
agenda days after president Trump ended
dutyfree entry for cheap Chinese Goods
more than a million packages were piled
up at New York's JFK Airport the
administration quickly put the order on
hold to figure out a way to implement
the policy change without crippling
America's Imports system the number of
shipments entering the us through this
tax-free Channel called di Minimus has
exploded in recent years reaching nearly
1.4 billion packages last year Steven
eisenhammer has been looking at the
story for us so I think the main thing
that the White House is trying to
achieve here is stop the flow of
chemicals that are used to make fenol
otherwise known as precursors coming
into the us because basically as these
packages come in without the need to pay
taxes to pay Duty they basically kind of
fly through customs much faster than
other goods and as a result it's easier
to smuggle Goods in one other thing the
White House is trying to do here is also
U make sure that the tariffs on China
apply to all Goods right so during
Trump's first ter when he put these
tariffs on China what happened was a
massive increase in Goods coming in VI
the Minimus that previously wouldn't
have come in through that channel
because it meant avoiding these tariffs
so what have a challenges of making a
system like this work we talked to a lot
of experts to understand really what
went wrong and effectively what people
said to us is that you just can't do
this overnight you've got 4 million
packages arriving a day through Dominus
you're talking about just a vast
quantity of stuff and you can't just
turn that off you know Trump gave three
days for this to be implemented what
happens now the White House did say to
us that this is going to be kind of
reimplemented soon but they need to
figure out how they can work it how can
they effectively charge tariffs on all
of these Goods that are coming in and
one of the big challenges for this is
the US Postal Service the experts that
we talked to said that that's kind of
the Achilles heel of this attempt to
close Dom Minimus for China the postal
service was built up as a history of
kind of receiving letters right from
abroad so it's not really designed or
built to charge tariffs in the same way
as say FedEx or DHL or UPS that have
kind of inhouse brokerage systems
for today's recommended read we visit
Germany and in particular its former
industrial Heartland to look at a
national debate raging about how to
revive Germany's economic fortunes ahead
of Sunday's election there's a link in
the Pod description where you can also
find a link to our weekend episode also
on Germany and the influence the far W
has in the weekend vote for more on any
of us stories from today check out
reuters.com or the roters app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player and we'll be back
tomorrow with our daily headline show
