today a bomb hidden in an electric
scooter kills a senior Russian general
in Moscow advocacy groups try to sway
Republican Senators into rejecting rfk's
nomination Justin Trudeau is facing a
fresh crisis after his Finance Minister
resigns and what we know about the Drone
sightings to the plaguing the East
Coast it's Tuesday December 17th
this is Rey's world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tara Oaks in Liverpool and I'm Jonah
Green in New
York Ukraine says it was behind the
assassination of a senior Russian
general in Moscow Lieutenant General
aigo kirilloff was killed in a Bomb
Blast earlier today four miles from the
Kremlin the bomb had been hidden in an
electric scooter a source in the
security service of Ukraine has told
Reuters kof and his assistant were
killed in a special operation kof was
chief of Russia's nuclear biological and
chemical protection troops and was
charged In Absentia in Kev on Monday
with the alleged use of banned chemical
weapons in Ukraine Russia denies those
accusations
[Music]
all student survivors have been
reunified with their parents Madison
police chief Shan Barnes after a
15-year-old girl fatally shot a fellow
student and a teacher in a classroom at
the Abundant Life Christian School in
Wisconsin she then killed herself with
the
handgun the US has asked Syrian militant
Rebel group hayat toir Al sham also
known as HTS for help locating kidnapped
American journalist Austin Ty Ty was
captured in 2012 during a reporting
trip from Moscow Syria's Bashar Al Assad
has given his first statement since
being toppled published on the Syrian
presidency's telegram Channel Assad
details his final hours in Syria before
being evacuated to Russia and the head
of a us-based Syrian advocacy
organization says a mass grave outside
Damascus contains the bodies of at least
100,000 people killed by the former
government of Assad Reuters has not
confirmed the
allegations a judge has ruled that
Trump's conviction for falsifying
records to cover up a sex scandal should
stand Justice Juan Maran rejecting the
president elect's argument that a recent
Supreme Court ruling on presidential
immunity nullified the
verdict a 7.4 magnitude earthquake has
hit the Pacific island of Vanuatu
killing at least one and injuring
multiple
people the Democratic Republic of Congo
has filed criminal complaints against
Apple in Europe accusing the company of
using conflict minerals in its supply
chain some congales mines are run by
armed groups involved in civilian
massacres Mass rapes and looting
according to un experts and human rights
groups Apple says it does not directly
Source primary materials and says it
audits suppliers publishes findings and
funds bodies that seek to improve
improve mineral
traceability China is planning a record
budget deficit next year as It prepares
for a possible trade war with the United
States KL Kens is here with more sources
have told Reuters that China is going to
run a budget deficit of 4% of gross
domestic product up from 3% last year
the bigger deficit means the government
will borrow more to fund more spending
it's a way of bolstering growth as
Donald Trump returns to the White House
promising Hefty tariffs on Chinese Goods
despite the strains Beijing is going to
maintain its growth Target of around 5%
next year and speaking of trade tensions
we take a closer look at them in this
week's econ World podcast we're diving
into the transatlantic economy that pod
will be out tomorrow and you can catch
it on reuters.com the Reuters app or
wherever you listen to your podcasts
[Music]
Canada's Finance Minister Christa
Freeland has quit after clashing with
prime minister Justin Trudeau freeland's
resignation creates one of the biggest
crises he has faced since taking power
in
2015 it also leaves Trudeau without a
key Ally when he's on track to lose the
next election to the official opposition
conservatives Caroline staffer is our
bureau chief in Canada this is not good
news for Trudeau it looks chaotic and
unplanned especially on a day where his
Finance Minister was due to present a
budget to Parliament the language and
the way she resigned was very dramatic
for Canada Freeland posted a surprise
letter on the xplatform she said Trudeau
no longer wanted her to be Finance
Minister and had offered her a lesser
position and she thought it was in her
best interest to resign and of course
the backdrop of this is that Trump is
coming into office while threatening to
tax Canadian Imports so Freeland was
around during the first Trump
Administration and was actually the lead
negotiator for the North American trade
deal that is now in place so not having
her around when Trump takes office in
January is a disadvantage for
Trudeau Robert F Kennedy Jr is on
Capitol Hill this week the anti vaccine
activist and Environmental Lawyer is
seeking to win support from Key Senators
who will decide whether he'll get to run
the Department of Health and Human
Services Donald Trump singing the
Praises of his controversial pick at a
press conference on Monday that Bobby is
much is a very rational guy I found him
to be very rational no nothing you're
not going to lose the the polio vaccine
advocacy groups opposed to RFK are
trying to influence a small group of
Republican Senators they believe could
block Kennedy's
nomination Michael OV is Big farmer and
has been speaking with these groups a
lot of these folks are healthare
advocacy group some of them formed to
try to preserve Obamacare during the
Trump Administration their concern
around vaccines is if the administration
were to work to discourage people from
getting their kids these vaccines there
could be a Resurgence of a lot of of
infectious diseases that could cost
lives in the country how are they
working to influence these senst they're
trying to influence the Senators through
advertising and also media events in
those states where those senators are
particularly Republican Senators who are
up for election in 2026 and those that
are in swing states that may be more
convincible on these issues like
vaccines and fluoride RFK is a
controversial figure but he does have an
interesting Coalition of supporters on
the left and right for those packs or
groups backing him what's s well RFK has
said that he's not
antivaccine that he's not planning on
taking people's vaccines away he is
interested in building around issues
like nutrition food safety there's a lot
of support from even people on the left
who are interested in those issues who
are more interested in chronic disease
than infectious disease who are
interested in reducing obesity in the
country and who think that Kennedy's
ideas can help with that Kennedy
spokesperson did not respond to a
request for comment his Advocates have
said opposition to his nomination stems
from corporate
[Music]
interests can you comment on the drones
that are flying around okay so we have a
policy of not covering conspiracy
theories but when you have the next
leader of the Free World weighing in the
government knows what is happening it's
time to talk about the drones and for
some reason they want to keep people in
suspense drone sightings have plagued
the East Coast over the last few weeks
something strange is going on for some
reason they don't want to tell the
people and they should because when
asked if he had been briefed on the
matter Trump refused to say so what's
the deal reporter Joseph ax is here to
fill us in on what we do know at this
point the Biden Administration has said
on the one hand that they're
investigating these reports on the other
hand they've said there's no evidence
that there's any threat to Public Safety
there's no threat to National Security
and they have spent some time trying to
bat down some of the more far-fetched
conspiracy theories that have been
floating around out there one thing
they've said is that they've looked
already into more than 5,000 of these
reports as of the weekend and they said
just about a hundred of them were
actually worth investigating so they've
concluded that the vast majority of
these sightings are people simply
mistaking manned aircraft like either
regular planes or small planes flying at
night for something else and they say a
lot of the sightings follow regular
flight paths so they've actually tried
pretty hard to kind of push back on I
think what they view as a bit of an
overreaction but there has been a lot of
frustration from state and local
officials who feel at the very least
that the federal government needs to do
[Music]
more for today's recommended read a
story from Nigeria the country's
anti-graft agency says it's arrested
almost 800 suspects in a scheme of
luring victims with offers of romance
and then pressing them to hand over cash
for phony crypto Investments there's a
link to for story in the Pod description
for more on any of the stories from
today check out reuters.com or the roers
app don't forget to follow us on your
favorite podcast player we'll be back
tomorrow with our daily headline show
