today Congress fails to pass a federal
spending bill they have till midnight to
avoid a government shutdown Vladimir
Putin signaling he's open to peace talks
on Ukraine but also warning of missile
Jewels with the west and how Hollywood's
pivoting to reconnect with blue collar
and conservative
Americans it's Friday December 20th this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tor Oaks in Liverpool and I'm
Christopher wal Jesper in
Chicago Congress has for the second time
this week failed to pass a federal
spending bill that would Stave off a
government shutdown ahead of the
holidays president-elect Donald Trump
nixed the first bipartison deal setting
the stage for a partial shutdown
beginning at midnight tonight TSA agents
at airports around the US and border
patrol agents are just some of the
federal workers who might suddenly be
without a paycheck our political
correspondent Bo Ericson was at the
capital so one new element in this
second round plan was to raise the debt
limit for two additional years and this
was an Ask by president-elect Trump
however it was raising that debt limit
threshold that ultimately sank the bill
for many conservatives that is something
that they could not put their name
behind and ultimately what does this
tell us about uh president-elect Trump's
relationship with Congress and his own
party members I think this is proving
already to be a wild card here for the
second Trump
Administration what we will be watching
for is whether more Republicans fall in
line with president-elect Donald Trump's
plans for funding the government because
he did weigh in and said if Republicans
are not supporting these plans then he
thinks that they should be primaried in
the next election against them but as we
saw the votes last night um on the floor
there were more Republicans who went
against their own party than even some
of the most outspoken members were
predicting Russian President Vladimir
Putin says he's ready to compromise on
Ukraine imp possible talks with US
president elect Donald
Trump speaking at an hours long press
conference with journalists and citizen
callers Putin spoke of missile Jewels
with the United States a meeting with
Trump as well as Syria's Ed leader
Bashar alassad and inflation overheating
Russia's
economy reporter Jonathan land is in
Washington covering Putin's remarks Mr
Putin said while he was ready to
compromise in possible talks with
president-elect Donald Trump and had no
conditions for starting talks with
Ukrainian authorities he made clear at
least for now that those authorities do
not include Ukraine's president
volodimir zalinski who he says has not
been reelected to another term now what
he leaves unsaid at least in these
comments are whether or not he is
dropping the conditions that he has long
had for such talks and those conditions
include Ukraine surrendering to Russia
what's left of the territories that
Russia is occupying he also says Ukraine
cannot join NATO and must remain neutral
so Putin's comments were varied right at
one point he sounded maybe ready to
negotiate the next he was talking about
a missile Jewel with the US is there any
sort of tactic to Putin's retoric the
fact is that he painted the war in
Ukraine as a success and yet according
to us and British officials Russia has
lost in casualties and dead more than a
half million men moreover we are
approaching the third anniversary of
this war and it shows no signs of
debating at this
[Music]
point the suspect in the killing of
United Health executive Brian Thompson
has been arraigned on federal charges of
murder and
stalking Luigi Mion also faces State
charges of murder and terrorism in New
York Federal prosecutors could seek the
death penalty for the federal murder
charge a punishment that's been
abolished in New York state for
decades top officials from the Biden
Administration are in Damascus today to
meet new Syrian authorities led by hayat
T asham th according to the state
department and marks the first official
meeting between Washington and Syria's
deao new rul
this a Georgia appeals court has
disqualified fton County DA Fanny Willis
from the 20120 election interference
case against Donald Trump in a 2:1
ruling the appeals court in Atlanta
found that a romantic relationship
between Willis and a former top Deputy
Nathan Wade created a quote significant
appearance of
[Music]
impropriety any idea of the price tag
for some of the more sought-after toys
or gifts this holiday season
surprisingly it's $10 or
less Target and Walmart are stocking
shelves with more toys and Gifts like
Barbie dolls and Old Spice hola dudes
body wash hoping to Reelin costc
conscious Shoppers Jessica denapoli has
been looking into the strategy consumers
are very worn out from years of
inflation which hurts lower income
people the most people are cash strapped
and having to pay more for Basics data
shows that people earning less than 5050
Grand a year are increasing their
spending by only a little bit from last
year and their spending has lagged
behind middle and upper income people so
retailers who are already facing a
lackluster holiday season need lower
income consumers to come in and Shop so
why is $10 the magical price point a
expert explained to me that it the $10
basically has psychological power it's
low enough that you can buy something
new at $10 and if it doesn't work out
it's not going to break your
bank and if you got toys on the brain
right now with all this holiday shopping
listen to this week's episode of econ
world where Carl crims hears about how
America's toy makers are preparing for
Trump
2.0 it's out now wherever you get your
podcasts and there's a link in the Pod
[Music]
description as we look ahead to the New
Year Hollywood is preparing a shift in
the type of films and TV series that'll
hit the big screens or streaming next
year and as our entertainment reporter
Don Chim malusi has been reporting
producers are looking into some welr
genres hoping for box office wins so
Hollywood has looked at the success of
Western focused series like Yellowstone
which actually attracted nearly four
times the audience of a series like
succession when they they looked at it
as perhaps signaling the audience's
desire for a different type of story
that sees people outside of coastal
America and another note that the
industry observed was the surprising
commercial success of a film called
sound of Freedom which was a 2023
Thriller based on the story of a
Homeland Security agent who rescues kids
from sex trafficking it was a movie that
really caught on with conservative
audiences and those in the religious
community so the studios saw this as
signaling an interest in kind of content
that they weren't providing now it feels
notable that we're seeing this shift in
programming right after the 2024
presidential election does this coincide
with what we're seeing politically yeah
Hollywood executives are are sort of
flinching when I suggest that perhaps
this is in reaction to the the election
rather they see it as a validation of a
programming strategy that there are
parts of this country that are
interested in different types of
Storytelling they want to see themselves
reflected in the same way that Hollywood
reflects other populations in its
storytelling there are others within the
creative Community who worry that
perhaps certain types of stories will no
longer be told one executive shared an
email in which a project was deemed too
political another showrunner was in the
process of closing a deal for a series
that had a diverse cast and the day
after election the project was cancelled
now it could well have been a
coincidence of timing but that is not
how this showrunner interpreted what
[Music]
transpired today's recommended read is
actually a recommended listen this
weekend's special episode of Reuters
world news is all about the weight loss
drugs that have gained in popularity in
recent years our Healthcare reporters
share what they've learned how the drugs
are covered and the impact of these new
treatments on society and that special
episode will be out tomorrow for more on
any of the stories from today check out
roach.com or the rors app don't forget
to follow us on your favorite podcast
player and we'll be back on Monday with
our daily headline show
