today Trump's tariffs rattle Global
markets with China Mexico and Canada all
threatening
retaliation Marco Rubio tells Panama to
end what he calls China's influence over
the canal or face Us action concern over
fenel deaths at a New Mexico reservation
and Beyonce and Kendrick Lamar are the
big winners at the
Grammys it's Monday February 3rd this is
Roy's world news bringing you everything
you need to know from the front lines in
10 minutes every weekday I'm Torah Oaks
in
[Music]
Liverpool this is a choice that yes will
harm Canadians but beyond that it will
have real consequences for you
the American people Canadian Prime
Minister Justin Trudeau following
president Donald Trump's ordering of
sweeping tariffs that are set to begin
on Tuesday Canada says it will take
legal action to challenge them and has
called for a boycott of us products
Beijing has denounced the 10% tariff on
Chinese Imports but has left the door
open for talks China's also threatened
counter measures something promised by
Mexican president Claudia shinal
projecting as slander the White House's
allegation that drug cartels have an
alliance with the Mexican Government
Trump himself says the sweeping tariffs
may cause short-term pain for Americans
he has talks scheduled today with the
leaders of Canada and Mexico but has
downplayed expectations that they would
change his mind Europe Breaking News
correspondent for finance and markets
Alan John is here with Market reaction
so far there been a pretty dramatic
reaction in European and Asian trading
so far today also a pretty clear and
sustained reaction really across lots of
things what's been happening is people
have been selling shares and people have
been buying the dollar against almost
every other currency us S&P 500 futures
are down about 1.5% that's not it's not
Armageddon is we move would see on a
dramatic day so and then in currencies
probably actually the moves are slightly
larger we've got the dollar is up about
1% on the Canadian dollar that's quite a
big move in currency terms but also
perhaps most dramatically that's that's
the Canadian dollar at its weakest
against the US dollar in over 20 years
euro is down about 1% and again that's
that's a that's a pretty solid move in a
currency why have we seen these
reactions today Trump did talk a lot
about tariffs on the campaign Trail the
first and the most important is that the
scale of the tariffs are at the top
depend of what investors were expecting
it feels like it's going to be well
over1 trillion dollar worth of imports
to the us that are now going to be
tariffed secondly it's investors saying
it's a little bit hard to see how
negotiations follow from this and so it
feels like they're going to have to live
with these cariff for a while and
probably the third reason is that
investors took some optimism from
Trump's early remarks and trade and
tariffs didn't appear to be the priority
it wer the focus of those remarks
and so now everyone suddenly reassessing
or reassessing their reassessment almost
and that's why we've seen this this
quite large reaction
[Music]
today us Aid will shut down that's
according to Elon
Musk the world's single largest Aid
donor is on The Chopping Block as part
of his effort to shrink the federal
government in a conversation on his
platform X musk said the US agency for
International Development is beyond
repair and says his boss agrees with
him FBI officials have been ordered to
fill out a questionnaire about any role
they played in investigations into the
January 6 attack on the capital their
answers are due by 3 p.m. Eastern today
Democrats and other critics say Trump's
team is carrying out a purge of FBI and
Justice Department officials who worked
on the criminal cases against Trump and
his supporters
at least four Palestinians have been
wounded in an Israeli strike on a
vehicle on the coastal Road in the
central Gaza Strip the Israeli military
says they fired on a suspicious vehicle
moving towards Northern Gaza outside the
inspection route specified by the
ceasefire agreement Hamas has described
the incident as a violation of the
truce and Spanish World Cup winner Jenny
hoso is due to testify today in the
trial of the former soccer Federation
boss over the kiss that triggered a
national me to movement Lou rubiales is
accused of sexual assault plus trying to
coer hoso into saying that the kiss had
been
consensual now over in Panama Secretary
of State Marco Rubio has used his first
visit since taking office to warn the
president to end what Trump sees as
China's influence and control over the
Panama Canal China is operating the
Panama Canal and we didn't give it to
China we gave it to Panama and we're
taking it back reporter Simon Lewis has
been traveling with Rubio I think the
message is sort of putting the
Panamanian government on notice in terms
of Chinese involvement around the canal
basically saying we think this is a
breach of the treaty we signed with you
to give you control of this canal and we
want you to do something about it I
think it's not explicit what the US is
threatening to do exactly but Trump has
already shown with Colombia and also
with with tariffs against Canada and
Mexico that you know he's willing to
take quite Extreme Measures measures
that you know experts would say will
impact the US economy and US consumers
as well to get countries to do what he
wants some panamanians have protested
Rubio's visit how is President Molino
responding to Rubio's threat the
pananian government have said the
sovereignty over the canal is not up for
talks here they have said you know we'll
look at Chinese companies who are
involved we'll review those kind of
things the president after meeting Rubio
did say that he could bring to an end
quicker than expected Panama's
involvement in China's belt and Road
initiative so that suggests they are
willing to show some flexibility perhaps
Panama knows what it might have to do in
uh in order to these concerns that are
coming out of
Washington curbing the deadly opioid
fenel is one of the justifications Trump
has given for his sweeping
tariffs across the US fenel overdose
debts have actually dropped
significantly in the last year but for
one indigenous reservation in New Mexico
the trend is heading drastically in the
opposite direction debts increased by
36% in 202 before and as our reporter
Andrew hay learned when he visited
solving the overdose epidemic there is a
complicated
situation the Alamo Navajo reservation
is extremely isolated to get there you
you have to Traverse miles of dirt track
that becomes impassible after rain or
snow and is pretty nly and this is a
blessing and a curse it means that they
have kept their culture intact but this
isolation has meant that it became a
sort of Haven for drug
dealing I talked with one man on the
reservation he's called Manuel wero and
he is a jeweler and a musician his
grandson Ambrose died of a fenel
overdose 125 yards from his home
underneath the tree and it pretty much
nearly took the family apart even though
the other person didn't do it but I used
to plain them and the untold story of
the epidemic it's what it does to
families it unravels the social
structure of the reservation which is
strong but is really facing its ultimate
test with this fental epidemic how is
the reservation trying to reverse this
trend so they're trying to get more
detox centers support for these families
that are looking after the children of
ad I treatment centers and law
enforcement because really without any
police presence it is just a sort of
Haven for uh dealers who are both tribal
members and are from off the
reservation I did find a man who is up
in the north of New Mexico a trbal
member called myON apachito I begin a
new life here and he has had success he
did seven months in rehab and he is now
working and Myra knows that he has to
stay away he his family is telling him
to stay away from the reservation the
same thing with all my cousins like
they're on drugs and everything they say
the same so he doesn't have that access
to drugs that he would have immediately
if he went back to the
[Music]
reservation and to the Grammys in Los
Angeles for today's recommended read the
event was revamped to be part award show
and part fundraiser for those affected
by the wildfires many of the
performances paid tribute and the show
opened with an Allstar rendition of I
love La Beyonce won album of the year
for cowboy Carter and Kendrick Lamar
took record and song of a year for not
like us for more on the winners and
highlights from the night click on the
link in the Pod description and for more
on any of the stories from today check
out reuters.com or the reuter app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player and we'll be back
tomorrow with our daily headline show
