it really seems like this week all roads
lead to Saudi Arabia we had the summit
between us and Russian officials in the
Capitol Riad over ending the war in
Ukraine US Secretary of State Marco
Rubio met with Crown Prince Muhammad bin
Salman there as well Plus in Miami Saudi
Arabia's Sovereign wealth fund hosted an
investor conference that was attended by
President Donald Trump himself the
Saudis have forged a new relationship
with Russia and will be critical voice
in determining what happens with
Palestinian
statehood on this weekend episode of
rers world news we'll ask our Saudi
experts why the kingdom has become this
Center of
diplomacy what role is oil playing and
do Trump and MBS want the same thing I'm
your host Jonah green
[Music]
my guests today come at this issue from
many different angles Maha El Dean is
our Gulf bureau chief Don dery leads our
US foreign policy team and Dimitri
shanov is our European energy and
commodities editor welcome everybody
thanks for talking thank you so let's
start with You Maha you're in the gulf
and you visit Saudi Arabia often why are
we seeing the Saudis at the center of so
many diplomatic efforts well I I think
if you look at the the place the Saudis
find themselves in now that uh the Trump
Administration has come in it's a very
different place than they were with
Biden that was quite a hostile
relationship at the beginning of it
Saudi Arabia was still in the throws and
dealing with all the ramifications of
the jam Kashi assassination in Turkey we
had a very awkward uh fist bump between
NBA and Biden when he finally visited
the the the kingdom I think it was July
2022 in in jeda so it was all quite
tense and it it took them quite a while
to be able to deal with the with with
the Biden
Administration now that Trump has come
in NBS has had a good relationship with
Trump the first time around it's a
little bit of a different world that
we're in though in 2025 and that the
Saudis themselves their positioning has
changed slightly they have a rapan with
Iran going on um they are very much
interested in having investments in the
US but they're also interested in China
and so I think they find themselves in a
position where they're much friendlier
with Trump but they also are have a lot
of negotiating power in the region which
Trump can make use of and of course the
number one most important thing is that
they are the de facto leaders of OPEC
yeah I so I would agree with all those
things and for the US Saudi Arabia is
you know its most important Arab partner
the relationship has been up and down as
Maha was was just saying but Trump
really needs them for a number of things
one is obviously the Gaza conflict right
you know and finding a long-term
solution there the Saudis are are really
going to be a pivotal Trump wants their
help in managing the price of oil he's
asked the Saudis to to work with OPEC to
lower the price of oil and then one of
his you know long-term Ambitions is to
expand the Abraham courts right and you
know there's this ambition to see Saudi
Arabia sign a peace deal with Israel and
it's all Complicated by you know the
things that Trump has said about Gaza um
and Saudi has said that they will not
sign any such consider any such deal
without a path to statehood for the
Palestinians so it's a it's a
complicated relationship but one that
the US really needs to work well yeah I
totally agree with everything Don and
and and and Maha said but also what
makes Saudi Arabia very important and
actually valuable for Washington is that
the Riad has spent the last 10 years at
building and strengthening their
relationship with Russia it's kind of on
the geopolitical front it's a it's a new
thing I mean the US Saudi relationship
has been very strong since the 80s when
Reagan W launch launched strategic
partnership which involved a lot of
weapon sales and oil but Saudi Arabia
has been a real Arc rival of Russia on
the oil front and politically as well
relations traditionally have been
extremely difficult for the Soviets
anti-islam policy and for the invasion
of Afghanistan they they were terrible
for many many years and what the Crown
Prince MBS has strategically sort of
designed with help of a few people who
are very close to Putin like the uh well
fund head
krif they they've launched this
partnership after years and years of
failures because there was a lot of
mistrust no one trusted anyone on the
oil side everyone accused each other of
cheating and then all of a sudden about
10 years ago they formed this OPC plus
relationship and since then it has been
quite strong in terms of like
controlling the oil price or contr I
mean OPC says they don't control the
price they control Supply but everyone
knows that the old imate goal is of
course to make prices sort of reasonable
and and and suit them so Saudi is coming
to the negotiation table with actually
saying look we we are we still have
maintained relationship with Russia
throughout a very very difficult moment
of the Ukrainian War there was like that
that's really when no one wanted to deal
with Russia but Saudi kind of carried on
and is is definitely benefiting now from
this and what do the Saudis want from
Trump and and the US I think the Saudis
uh you know want a lot out of the
relationship with Washington and for
vying for this position of mediation on
several things whether it's Russia
Ukraine or Gaza or Iran for that matter
tension may arise in the fact that MBs
is trying to change Saudi Arabia right
he has his vision 2030 nbs's economic
transformation plan that is supposed to
wean the economy off its dependence on
oil and hydrocarbons it's very ambitious
they're really trying to focus and
getting a lot of big Giga projects off
the ground and they're doing it at a
time when oil prices haven't been at the
level that they would like to see and
there have been a lot of delays to some
Saudi projects so at a time when he's
trying to focus Investments Inward and
The Sovereign wealth fund of Saudi
Arabia the public investment Forum came
out and said last year very clearly that
they wanted to focus domestically and
that they would do less International
Investments we see uh their Flagship
event in Miami fi Miami where Trump
spoke as long as you invest in America
build an America and hire an America
that means that I'm fighting for you
basically with his vision of wait a
minute I want a trillion out of the
Saudi
so he's going to an event where their
Sovereign wealth fund is and which they
have traditionally hosted uh to try and
see how they can get money into the
kingdom and it it's made a lot of people
think where there there's a little bit
of tension there because maybe their
ultimate vision is not how much they
want to put into the us but how much
they can get out of each and every
investment they're making right now that
would filter back into the vision 2030
program which is nbs's Grand make
transformation program yeah I might just
add to that to remind people that the
relationship is is really complicated
between the US and Saudi um including
Trump and his family right so Donald
Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner has a
firm into which the Saudis have invested
$2 billion and the Trump organization
has its own business plans underway in
the region you know including a a Trump
Tower in in Riad and some real estate
expansion in in Abu Dhabi so there is
sort of a mixing of sort of political
and personal here as well I mean as Maha
pointed out Prestige Prestige is is very
very important I mean what price tag do
you put on Prestige everyone wants hugs
no one wants fist bumps yeah Iran as
Maha mentioned very important I mean
it's um things get very quickly
forgotten but it was only what 2019 so 6
years ago that Iranian proxies have
destroyed with drone attack attacks big
chunk of the Saudi oil industry mhm so
Trump imposed very hard sanctions on
Iran Iranian oil ex was dropped and Iran
said well we not going to sit here
without a response and responded by
destroying half of Saudi oil facilities
it took some time to repair this it was
a very very serious incident and and
finally it's sometimes it's not about
what you get but what you do not get
from Trump first term it was obvious
that he doesn't like oil prices at $80
per barrel he absolutely dislikes when
oil hits $80 per barrel and he starts
scolding OPAC for the release of more
oil for Saudi $80 per barrel is
extremely important for balancing the
budget they cannot afford less this than
$80 per barrel and their vision is
pretty much like we're not going to give
people unrestricted unlimited access to
oil world is unfair same as if you ask
for unrestricted access to US dollar
liquidity people will say well on what
grounds are you asking for and it's
unrestricted access to the dollar so the
S Division is like we have oil it's our
currency so to have their view to to
understand the US government view on uh
what they want from their oil policy how
Trump views the oil policy in his second
term is Paramount and priceless for them
MH so sometimes it's even kind of
untangle access to some inside us
knowledge that's what they want dimma
mentioned the upkick attacks in
2019 and off of that front and center on
the minds of the rulers of Saudi Arabia
is a comprehensive defense agreement
with the US and that's something that
has been under discussion with the Biden
Administration it was linked to
normalization with Israel it took a back
seat when GDA broke out but it's you
know there are a lot of question marks
as where do they start now with the
Trump Administration what points will
they carry on with them from what was
previously discussed is he going to come
up with a completely new drawing board I
mean what is the conversation going to
be like over that and that agreement
included a lot of things that we'd heard
about from Saudi Arabia's nuclear
Ambitions to you know their Ambitions in
rare Earths and minerals
and so it was pretty comprehensive and
included a lot of things whether and how
that will go through now is something
that will be eagerly debated and watched
I
think and so when Trump floats this plan
to relocate Palestinians from Gaza
bulldoze the strip and turn it into some
fancy Resort I I imagine this
complicates things with Riad it makes it
definitely more difficult but I think
the view from the Gulf from Saudi Arabia
perhaps from the UAE is that they see
Trump's proposition and they look at it
as you know he's he's moved the goalpost
way up here now what can we do to now
give him another proposition that is
palatable for the Arab world but it's
also a little bit in line with his
vision and can be sold to Trump as maybe
partly his own idea as well well so
there are a lot of conversations going
on right now King Abdullah has said that
there will be an Arab plan to counter
Trump's plan what that plan will look
like we don't know but we know that
Saudi Arabia is spearheading it it's
mainly an Egyptian proposal so they are
also front and center to that plan and
how they will shape and sell that plan
to the Trump Administration so it's
difficult and it's going to be a
difficult negotiation but I mean I don't
think it will stand in the way of the
relationship evidenced by the fact that
we have President Trump showing up at fi
Miami a sharp sharp contrast to what
things were like under Biden in terms of
the risk to the Saudi us relationship
from Gaza I think it's in the interests
of both countries to resolve that and as
Maha was saying I think they'll they'll
find a way they'll find a way past that
it's important to remember that Trump
does come out with some of these uh
these ideas these proposals that evolve
over time it's always hard to tell where
his line is and whether he's really
being serious or not you know he has
repeated the the Gaza plan of you know
removing the Palestinians several times
now so it does sound like he's pretty
serious about it but you know we'll have
to see how that how that plays out I
think the fact that he has gone to this
investment conference is one sign that
you know among other things he wants to
do some relationship repair which is
again a recognition of just how
important this relationship is for the
US what exactly is the PF and how does
that work I mean The Sovereign wealth
fund Pi has had a wide reach right uh
we've heard about them in sports live
golf for example deal they were
investors in soft bank it's a nearly
trillion dollar Sovereign wealth fund so
it's quite big they they need to show
for themselves what they want to show
for themselves basically is that they
can make good Investments and they can
make these Investments grow and they can
finance a lot of the vision 2030
programs inside Saudi because they are
profitable as a sovereign wealth fund
the thing is the the PF is still not
entirely dependent from oil money it's
not even close to being completely
independent from oil money so how
successful they have been so far in
moving away from that internally not a
great success at the moment but there is
a lot of oil money in it of course and
so they they have the power to invest I
think it's important to understand that
yes saudi's Revenue are huge thanks to
uh oil prices trading around $75 $80 per
barrel but they have a large budget
deficit their revenues are not enough to
cover all their spending so essentially
I mean they uh they're not paying their
mortgage so when you're not paying the
mortgage it's not the time to go and and
and buy a lot of jewelry so around the
world and yes I mean the US has a huge
budget deficit but the US can print
money Saudi cannot print money and my
point is yes there's going to be some
important investment such as the Saudis
like the World Cup investment for
example that but there will be some
Prestige big tickets but in terms of
like driving Global Investments I think
they will be focusing for and foremost
on on the projects inside the country
rather than going on a shopping spree
around the world so Maha what is
happening inside the country what is
life like for ordinary Saudis and do
they feel that NBS has delivered on his
promise of Reform I mean when NBS became
Crown Prince and he is the de facto
leader of of Saudi Arabia he had like
really big Ideas socially economically I
would say that the Saudi Arabia you
visit today is radically radically
different than what it was like maybe 10
years ago in terms of social changes MH
he is really transforming the country I
used to have to wear ABA and cover my
hair whenever I visited Saudi Arabia I
no longer have to do that women can
drive there's movie theaters um he has
one of his advisers in charge of an
entertainment Authority and now we have
the Riyad season with like Arab
celebrities International celebrities
making their way to you know Saudi
Arabia at various times of the years
they have celebr endorsements it's a
it's a radically different country now a
lot of the young Saudis are very happy
with those changes you're living in a
country where you can go out freely
where there are parties and so that has
really changed but I think what we have
to remember is also Saudi Arabia in a
lot of people's minds who've never
visited or maybe don't know too much
about the country is a rich Gulf country
with a lot of money where everyone is
living really well that's not in enely
true Saudi Arabia is a big country with
a large population unlike for example
its neighbor the UAE where the
population is quite small and there is
poverty in Saudi Arabia and so in terms
of like the standards of living for
average Saudis there are issues still
and you know the the most popular topic
of conversation that you will have with
any Uber driver when you get in are that
things are becoming more expensive and
that life is becoming more difficult so
there is is a big question mark about
how much his vision 2030 is filtering
down uh to all segments of society in
terms of the economy but I would say in
terms of society there are very big
changes which the majority of people
really like there is of course a segment
of the population which will be unhappy
with these changes you know more
conservative shocked to see parties and
Cinemas and and
whatnot thanks everybody for talking
today I really appreciate it thank you
thank you it was a pleasure thank you
thank
you thanks again to Dimitri Maha and Don
for their time and expertise roers world
news is produced by Gail Isa David
Spencer Sharon R Garson Kim vanel
Christopher walljasper and me Jonah
green our senior producers are Tara Oaks
and Carmel crims our executive producer
is Leela dzer sound design and music
composition by Josh
summer we'll be back on Monday with our
daily headline show to make sure you
never miss an episode click follow on
your favorite podcast player or download
the Reuters app
