[Music]
Iceland the land of Ice and
Fire but what happens when the ice
[Music]
melts in this special edition of
reuter's world news we take you to the
edge of a volcano and the Forefront of
scientific research on whether the rapid
Retreat of glaciers and ice sheets as a
result of of human induced climate
change will trigger an increase in
volcanic
activity I'm Torah Oaks in
Liverpool our climate and environment
correspondent Gloria dicki traveled to
Iceland to join a team of volcanologists
and filed this dispatch and if she
sounds out of breath it's because she is
climbing high up the Asia volcano past
bubbling pools and hissing
vents I'm looking out over the site of a
massive eruption that occurred here at
Iceland's ASE volcano at the end of the
last ice age that completely transformed
this region as the glaciers were
disappearing and that whole time period
saw a 30 to 50 fold increase in volcanic
activity
here in Iceland as the ice was melting
and disappearing and with climate change
scientists are concern that the same
thing could essentially happen again as
we are seeing massive reductions in
Iceland's glaciers due to global warming
there's concern that we're going to see
a new era of volcanic activity here in
Iceland and Askia Askia is one of those
sites of concerns
so we're coming up to V crater and we
have to be a bit careful because this
volcano is actually in a state of unrest
it's an active
volcano and in 2021 scientists noticed
that after years in years of deflating
of the kind of surface going down which
means it was becoming less active
suddenly things changed and this region
began uplifting indicating that more
magma was being created or coming in
underneath the volcano know and so
scientists are concerned that we're
pretty much primed for an eruption right
now and there's concern you know even
just today as we're near V crater that
you could have a steam a sudden steam
eruption like what was seen at White
Island in New Zealand in 2019 and so
we're just kind of trying to minimize
our time in this area in case anything
does
happen as I get closer and closer to VD
crater and its milky cyan Waters the
smell of sulfur that that rotten egg
smell is just infiltrating my nostrils
so I know I know that I'm getting
closer I'm accompanying scientists with
the Icelandic Met Office who are here to
measure the gases and the pH level and
the temperature of the lake this this
crater as well as lake oia was formed
during 1875 eruption and scientists are
worried that as the ice disappears
covering Iceland due to climate change
that another very devastating eruption
could take place here at Asia that is
the gas detector just going off now as
we measure the gases and all the steam
blowing off of the
crater and I'm with scientist Michelle
Marie Parks and she's warning tourists
to turn around you know people people
are coming down the Steep crater wall
because they want to swim in VD crater
and it's beautiful beautiful waters you
know that are perfect for Instagram but
there's a real Hazard here and Michelle
is trying to to steer people away from
you know what she sees as risking their
lives for a few minutes in those
Waters this massive Caldera is filled
with rolly and and there's also an
eruption here at 1961 that created these
deep jet black shiny lava rocks basalt
rocks which most people are more
familiar with can see the history of
this region you know just just in a few
minutes the layers and layers of
different rock types that Mark this
Region's eruptive
[Music]
history Gloria joins me now to talk
about her reporting Gloria you've made
it back from the land of Ice and Fire
what was it like being there I mean
Iceland is always stunning it has some
of the most beautiful scenery in the
world i' only ever been there before in
the winter so this was my first time in
summer which is still actually very cold
um but it's also my first time getting
so close to some of the country's active
volcanoes which was thrilling and so in
your reporting you say that the Asia
volcano had a significant growth spurt
in 2021 inflating by 11 cm with a little
more than 4 in in just a few months can
you explain what that means in layman's
terms and why it's significant so
scientists call this phenomenon to be
inflation or uplift is generally what
they go with and basically that means
that the ground is kind of swelling
upward and outward as more and more
magma likely pushes into the reservoir
below the volcano now a 4in uplift isn't
really detectable to the human eye but
they use a lot of different complex
scientific instruments to kind of
monitor those changes for unrest what's
triggering this that's basically like
the big question that scientists are
trying to answer right now at ASA is
what has kind of triggered this change
that suddenly magma and tons and tons of
magma we're talking you know million
cubic meters of magma is now coming in
under osia because for several decades
the volcano had been deflating so it was
becoming less active if you will but
since 2021 that's no longer the case and
so they have some theories and one of
those theories is climate change so
scientists basically know that when ice
disappears off of the Earth's mantle and
the crust that triggers a pressure
change in these Earth Systems and it
creates all these different Dynamic
processes that are happening deep deep
underground such as more magma is
melting from the mantle so more of
molten rock is being created it's also
creating fractures in the earth changing
stress field and making certain magma
reservoirs less it can make them less
stable and so when you think of that
you're thinking okay well if the ice is
disappearing in the past that's happened
from just coming out of ice ages but now
places like Iceland that have a lot of
ice left are again losing their glaciers
because of climate change so essentially
there's this very kind of complex
interaction between ice and the Earth
and volcanoes so the retreat of glaciers
and ice sheets due to climate change
that could trigger an increased volcanic
activity that's the fear more magma
coming in can trigger more eruptions and
more violent eruptions and it's not
something that people normally think
about that climate change could affect
volcanoes but basically scientists in
Iceland it's a great place to study this
phenomenon because you have a lot of ice
and you have a lot of volcanoes and
scientists know that when the last ice
age ended Iceland actually registered a
30 to 50 times increase in volcanic
activity in that period during and after
the ice loss so we know that this has
happened before and the big question is
will this happen again and is it
actually already happening now the
tricky thing is that scientists don't
know how much magma it takes to kind of
trigger a pressure change that trips an
eruption in the magma chamber so there's
an uncertainty with all of this as to
when or if these volcanoes including
Asia will in fact erupt so you say the
Asia volcano has the potential to erupt
with the same explosive power as the
1980 eruption in Mount St Helens what's
the potential impact of such an eruption
on Iceland right now this is a tricky
question but in terms of kind of the
scale that volcanologists use to measure
the explosive force known as the
explosivity index Asia has in the past
erupted at a level of vii5 which is a
plinian eruption a big explosive
eruption and we know that that was what
Mount St Helens was too when it erupted
in 1980 so basically the concern is that
we know that it has this capability to
have these huge eruptions you know vvus
was a vi5 as well I believe the Dynamics
would slightly differ Mount St hland had
a bunch of different complications to it
which made its blast so dangerous it had
this like lateral bulge ASA would
probably not be like that and in fact it
has had more mild eruptions but there is
concern that we do know that it has that
potential so scientists can't rule it
out and in Iceland with this increasing
magma production and the potential for
eruptions how would local communities
and tourists responding to this threat
what measures are being taken for their
safety I think a lot of people have been
looking at what's been happening in
Iceland out on the rikus peninsula over
the past year it's had a number of
eruptions in that system which is
completely separate from this phenomenon
that is not believed to be tied to ice
loss or climate change but at the same
time it's kind of this molten reminder
of what's lurking underneath Iceland
right we have people who live near a lot
of these active volcanoes in the case of
catla volcano which is down on the
southern coast it's near the town of Vic
and catla has had very very dangerous
eruptions in the past it's also a
volcano that's under the glacier under
the vat yal ice cap and so when you have
this kind of upst of super hot lava
coming out of all volcano that melts the
ice that's on top of the volcano and
that can create these torrential floods
that can go towards towns or tourists in
Iceland which is most people probably
been there as a tourist and so the
government you know uses scientists like
those with the Met Office to kind of
very closely monitor these volcanoes
they create plans they create evacuation
plans they do risk assessments but now
they're also wondering you know do we
need to start thinking about climate
change and suddenly having a huge surge
in eruptions in Iceland because I should
add Iceland is on track to lose roughly
half the volume of its Ice by the end of
this
century and so the research that's
happening in Iceland is unique right
they have Government funding and the
volcanoes are there that they can study
um but you say the implications of this
won't stop in Iceland so can you talk
about other regions where similar things
might be happening yeah I should add
that like the work that's happening in
Iceland right now is one of the first if
not the first kind of field study that's
actually looking at will climate change
impact volcanoes that's what drew our
attention to it because I too had never
thought about any kind of connection
between volcanoes and climate change but
this is a much bigger Global issue if
this phenomenon comes to pass which is
that there are hundreds of volcanoes
around the world that are directly under
glaciers and ice sheets and it's not
just in Iceland it's in the Andes it's
in Russia's kchaka Peninsula and it's
also in Antarctica so not that I need
more reasons not to lose sleep at night
but what are some of the scenarios that
these sleeping Giants Awakening from
climate change would look like yeah
again like Iceland is the most sensitive
spot to these changes in terms of it
above like this tectonic plate boundary
there's a plume so we would expect like
perhaps changes to happen there first
but if we were to see a sudden an uptick
in volcanic activity in the Andes and
other parts of the world a lot of those
effects would be pretty local people who
live near the volcanoes but again you
would have these giant Ash plumes which
can contain things like carbon dioxide
which we know is already really quite
bad for the climate so sometimes
volcanoes cause a bit of cooling to
begin with but then that could lead to
longer term global warming because we
have much more carbon dioxide in the
atmosphere from these eruptions the
other even more concerning kind of
Doomsday scenario is that there are
believed to be more than 100 volcanoes
under Antarctica and the West Antarctic
ice sheet and if those were to suddenly
pop off as that big ice sheet recedes it
could expedite or speed up the loss of
the West Antarctic ice sheet which is
basically the lever that's controlling
sea level rise around the world so you
could have volcanoes erupting under the
I sheet melting more of it down and kind
of creates this vicious feedback right
where by you keep melting more of the
ice more volcanoes erupt and sea levels
rise what was the feeling among the
volcano experts you met in Iceland a lot
of these volcanologists that we met down
at Askia you know this is what they kind
of live for right they live for
volcanoes on the one hand it's like
quite grim and they're very concerned
about what this holds for the future but
you know some of the folks that we met
were just so excited about the kind of
concept that ASA could erupt and the day
that we were there one of the
volcanologists who' been coming to Asia
since 1990 was like I've never seen so
many scientists here before just
scrambling to figure out what's going on
we you know there was there was more
than a dozen people out taking various
measurements on the lava Fields some
people had a boat so it's kind of like
this freefor all at the volcano but yeah
I mean in terms of the yeah the people
monitoring the ice it's probably you
know it is quite sad for some of them
and the people who live these glaciers
and they watch them disappear but I
think for the volcanologists of course
there's concern and fear but also like
volcanoes are really cool volcanoes are
so hot right now
[Music]
exactly to read more on glorious story
and see some of the visuals from Iceland
check out reuters.com and the Reuters
app reuter world news is produced by
Gail Isa Sharon R Garson David Spencer
Christopher Wall Jasper and Jonah green
our senior producers are me Torah Oaks
and Carl Kens our executive producer is
Leela Deeter sound design and music
composition are by Josh
summer we'll be back on Monday with our
daily headline show make sure to
subscribe on your favorite podcast
player or download the Reuters app
