today why China's surprise AI success is
upending the tech universe and the stock
market how Trump's defense secretary
seeks to make his mark on the Pentagon
and what America First means for us Aid
worldwide it's Tuesday January 28th this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Jonah Green in nework York and I'm
Tara Oaks in
Liverpool Chinese AI startup deep seek
sent us stocks reeling on Monday
chipmaker Nvidia lost
$593 billion in market value in a single
day and yes that's a record for any
company on Wall Street the lowcost
startup even caught the eye of President
Trump deep seek I from a Chinese company
should be a wakeup call for our
industries that we need to be laser
focused on competing to win Global Tech
industry editor Ken Lee has been looking
at the threat deep seek poses to the
tech World Order deep seek is actually a
set of AI models that were released late
last year to not a whole lot of fanfare
but what it purported to do was a couple
of things one it was able to either meet
or exceed benchmarks set by far more
powerful and well financed AI companies
like open Ai and Google and the more
surprising thing was it did so with a
lot less resources it's not fully
transparent exactly how much they spent
to develop the two models we only know
about one of them and that's the one
that the whole world is seizing on the
V3 model they uh said had used kind of
lower-end Nvidia chips and spent under
$6 million to develop this model that uh
in many cases were able to beat open AI
chat GPT so it's a big mystery as to
exactly what is real here and how much
it cost what is real is the performance
of these models are pretty fantastic and
that has slooped the entire Market which
has been trained essentially to accept
the fact that big Tech requires vast
sums of money to buy vast you know
amounts of chips and use vast amount of
data to show AI improvements we heard
president Trump weighing in earlier what
does this mean for the AI race in the US
Trump eliminated sort of AI guard rails
put in place by Biden and they're
seizing this moment as a rationale for
eliminating even more guard rails that
in order to keep America competitive
that they need fewer controls over what
they can do and really compete against
against
[Music]
China turbulence in some of the biggest
Tech names is reminding investors of one
of the major risks to the US stock
market's record setting rally Reliance
on a handful of Mammoth companies to
power those gains Nvidia is one of The
Magnificent Seven Mega caps who combined
contributed more than half of the S&P
500's 25 % total return in
2024 and on rus.com and the roter app we
have a neat magnificent 7 monitor to
track those tech stocks which have
dominated the market there's a link in
the Pod
description in Democratic Republic of
Congo Rwanda back to M23 Rebels have
faced pockets of resistance from the
Army and pro government militia in the
city of GMA overnight
residents have reported Small Arms fire
and Loud explosions this morning
including near the airport sources say
the airport is still being held by un
peacekeepers and government
troops Trump is pushing ahead with
military deportation flights sending
another plane load of migrants to
Guatemala on Monday meanwhile in a
reversal to her previous position
Mexican president Claudia Shin bound
says Mexico has received non-mexican
migrants in the last week and that other
Central American countries could also
cut similar deals with the
US president Trump is making moves
against his perceived enemies within the
justice department on Monday he fired
more than a dozen doj lawyers who
brought two criminal cases against him
an official said at the same time a
source tells Reuters that the top
federal prosecutor in Washington a trump
appointee has opened an internal review
Into the prosecutions of those who took
part in the January 6th ride
Trump says Microsoft is in talks to
acquire Tik Tok adding he'd be up for a
bidding war over the social media app
Tik Tok earned its owner bite dance did
not
comment and Google Maps has a direction
for the Gulf of America slul of Mexico
controversy once a name is officially
updated in the US Geographics names
system Google Maps users in the US will
see it change to Gulf of America the
uses in Mexico it will still be called
Gulf of Mexico and for people everywhere
else both options will come up on their
screens Secretary of Defense Pete hex
who was narrowly confirmed by a
tiebreaking vote in the Senate on Friday
arrived to his first day at the Pentagon
Monday hex highlighting the executive
orders that Trump would sign later in
the day removing Dei uh inside the
Pentagon reinstating troops who were
pushed out because of covid mandates
Heth like his boss is promising major
change with a focus on culture War
issues like diversity equity and
inclusion adri Ali covers the Pentagon
coming into this job there was sort of
lots of statements that he had made that
really created tension right after bat
in one of his books recently he
suggested that the top US general
General ccbe Brown who is Black might
have been selected because of his skin
color when uh Pete hex arrived at the
Pentagon General Brown was waiting to
greet him on the steps the two shook
hands and uh we yelled a question about
whether he would fire the chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Brown
who was standing next to him he looked
at General Brown smiled and said I am
standing right next to him and he said
I'm looking forward to working with him
he patted him on the back and the two
walked into the Pentagon what was he
that's the media Focus Beyond what's
becoming clear to us is that his Focus
initially will be internal within issues
at the Pentagon that he sees as
problematic or potentially controversial
talking to reporters on his first day at
the Pentagon he referred to bases that
were named after Confederate generals
that it have now been changed by their
original names and Pete hexat has made
clear that it's not just about Foreign
Wars and foreign conflict it's going to
be about Dei looking at troops who are
serving in the military and sending
troops to the border to sort of in the
words of President Trump defend the
United
States As Trump makes his mark on the US
military his administration is also
shaking up foreign policy objectives at
the US agency for International
Development sources tell Reuters 60
career staffers have been put on leave
after a memo warning employees to get in
line with their America First policy or
face disciplinary action the threat
comes after the president effectively
put a freeze on US foreign aid
worldwide Humera paluk is our Deputy
foreign policy editor a lot of people at
USA are definitely on on edge one thing
that a lot of humanitarians and people
who work in this area have told me is
just this abrupt and very blanket and
wide freeze is really shocking because
some of these programs it's not like
turning on and off a faet do we know who
will be most impacted by this freeze
it's so broad it basically creates chaos
everyone's asking all of the USA sources
all of the state department sources that
I've been talking to they are wondering
is my program part of this there are few
exemptions the exemptions are basically
for Israel for foreign military
financing same for for Egypt and yes
there's a waiver for emergency food
programs but those are not the only
crucial
[Music]
programs for our recommended read
Welcome to
[Music]
rooterville our team have put together a
gorgeous reuter's simulation of a cozy
game a cozy game is defined by its easy
relaxing nature and constructive rather
than destructive
challenges and Recent research has shown
that welcoming cute and low skill video
games could be an antidote to Stress and
Anxiety go and read more and enjoy some
constructive play by following the link
below for more on any of the stories
from today check out reuters.com or the
Reuters app don't forget to follow us on
your favorite podcast player we'll be
back tomorrow with our daily headline
show
[Music]
