today over 200 Venezuelans have been
deported from the US despite a court
order with the Trump Administration
saying a judge does not have the
authority to block its actions the US
says it will keep hitting Yemen's
houthis until they stop attacks on
shipping and government officials have
been arrested after a deadly nightclub
fire in North
Macedonia it's Monday March 17th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tara Oaks in
[Music]
Liverpool first to the latest on Russia
and Ukraine president Trump says he will
speak to Russian President Vladimir
Putin by phone on Tuesday Trump's
expected to press Russia to sign a US
proposal for a 30-day ceasefire in its
war with Ukraine while Russia says it's
seeking Ironclad guarantees in any peace
deal including that NATO Nations exclude
Kev from membership and that Ukraine
will remain
[Music]
neutral the Trump Administration has
deported alleged members of a Venezuelan
gang from the US that's despite a court
order forbidding it from doing so saying
in an extraordinary statement that a
judge did not have the authority to
block the administration's actions
they've been flown to El Salvador where
they were taken to a notorious high
security prison our immigration reporter
Ted hessen is looking into the case what
we've seen from the Trump Administration
so far is an effort to try and ramp up
deportations uh really using novel
means uh it's almost as if there's sort
of a No Holds Barred effort and in some
cases they're really experimenting with
New Uses of laws and testing the
legality of them and I think the use of
the alien enemies act here is a perfect
example you have a law that is best know
it's a wartime statute it was best known
uh for the justification for interment
of Japanese Americans uh Italian
Americans and others during World War II
and it's being resurrected here with the
intent of being used against alleged
gang members and what we see in this
case is that people were deported and
the government US government still
hasn't come forward and said what their
identities were what their alleged
crimes might have been and what
convictions they might have and they've
made it to El Salvador now according to
a post by President na B showing men
being hustled off a plane in the dark of
night amid a massive security presence I
mean it's quite the post right Ted if
you look at it there's bu posting oopsie
too late above a headline about the
judge ordering the flights to return
followed by a laughing so hard I'm
crying Emoji B said that the country was
accepting these
238 alleged uh members of TR araga and
that they would be kept in the country's
Mega prison for up to a year and that it
may be longer than that but it wasn't
clear that any charges were being
brought against them just a there was an
agreement to hold them there for at
least a year and possibly
longer at least 36 people are known to
have died after tornadoes ripped across
the Midwest and into the Southern United
States the storms hit Six States with
power outages affecting more than
300,000 people parts of the country are
still under a National Weather Service
watch but and sunny are coming home a
SpaceX capsule delivered four as to the
International Space Station for a crew
swap allowing Butch Wilmore and sunny
Williams to return after they've been
stuck in space for 9 months they due
back on Earth on
[Music]
Wednesday the US has vowed to keep
attacking Yemen's houthis until they end
attacks on shipping as the Iran aligned
group signaled it could escalate in
response to deadly us strikes over the
weekend the air strikes are the biggest
US military operation in the Middle East
since president Trump took office in
January over 50 people were killed
according to the houy Run Health
Ministry our national security
correspondent Phil Stewart has been
following the story The the timing of
this is really curious that the houthis
about a week ago had said that they were
going to resume attacks against Red Sea
shipping but there hadn't been any
attacks by the houthis on Commercial
vessels since January and instead of
waiting for the houthis to carry out
this campaign the Trump Administration
and president Trump himself gave a green
light and ordered this campaign to go
forward to send a message to the houthis
and clearly to Iran which backs the
houthis how is Iran reacting to these
attacks so Iran is also being quite
clear here that they are not going to be
pushed around you saw the head of the of
the Revolutionary guard come out and
warn that Iran would respond decisively
and destructively if the United States
were to carry out threats to punish Alon
for its support to the houis and so I
think that when you look at the houis
they've been resilient throughout this
entire period and so now you're seeing
the US really turn its gaze to the
houthis and the Trump Administration
saying that when it comes to
international shipping this is a core
National Security interest of the United
States and this will not be tolerated
and clearly also this is a message to
Iran itself that this era of backing
proxies will not be tolerated any longer
so Phil what happens now so where we're
at right now between the United States
and Yemen is really a standoff the
United States is saying to the houthis
that that it will keep attacking Yemen
until the houthis abandon their threats
to attack shipping in the Red Sea and
War us warships in the Red Sea and the
houthis are saying that they will keep
fighting and attacking us warships until
the US stops its bombing of
[Music]
[Applause]
Yemen China's State Council has unveiled
what it calls a special action plan to
boost domestic consumption it includes
increasing resident income and
establishing a Child Care Subsidy scheme
the plan also envisages measures to
stabilize the stock market but gives no
details on when and how this could
happen pressure has been building on
Chinese officials for Consumer Focus
stimulus measures to fend off
deflationary pressures after the economy
was hit by covid-19 disruptions and a
prolonged property
[Music]
slump distraught and angry relatives
outside a hospital in North Macedonia
after a fire ripped through a nightclub
killing at least 59
people more than 150 others were injured
in the fire in the town of kasani around
500 people were inside when it thought
Sparks ignited the roof as a band
[Music]
performed Maria T was there with her
sister when the fire
started she describes the Panic as
everyone started shouting and screaming
and running for the club's only the ex
with a bandage on her face after getting
injured in the crush she tells us how
her sister didn't make it out and is
among those killed declaring seven days
of national mourning prime minister
Christian mikosi says the club's license
had been issued a legally by the economy
Ministry promising those responsible
would face Justice authorities say about
20 people have already been arrested
including the son of boner and
government
[Music]
officials a recommended read is about a
landmark legal case resuming in a German
Court featuring a Peruvian farmer and an
energy giant s Luciano leya argues that
rwe's emissions have contributed to the
melting of glaciers in the Andes
increasing the risk of flooding to his
home the case could set a president for
future climate litigation and if you
want to find out more there's a link in
the Pod description for more on any of
our stories from today check out
reuters.com or the Reuters app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player and we'll be back
tomorrow with our daily headline show
