today French military aid starts to
arrive in Cyclone battered myot Israel
aims to double its population on the
occupied Golan Heights Trump's
transition team wants to cut off support
for electric vehicles and why Canada's
border Crackdown pledge is easier said
than
[Music]
done it's Monday December 16th this is
Reuters world news bring you everything
you need to know from the front lines in
10 minutes every weekday I'm Carmel
crims in
[Music]
Dublin of Devastation in the French
Indian Ocean territory of myot where
hundreds or even thousands are feared
dead after it was hit by a powerful
Cyclone the storm brought Winds of more
than 120 4 mph ripping apart the
makeshift shelters where many people
live aerial footage shows the wreckage
of hundreds of homes on the islands
which have become a focal point for
illegal immigration it's the strongest
storm to hit the islands in more than 90
years John balos lives there and told us
he feared for his
[Music]
life on Monday rescue teams continue the
search for survivors with authority
part's warning a precise death toll was
difficult to
[Music]
ascertain Israel's government has
approved a plan to double its population
on the occupied Golan Heights which had
captured from Syria in
1967 prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
says strengthening the Golan is
strengthening the state of Israel
following the fall of the Assad regime
Saudi Arabia Qatar and the UAE have
condemned the decision Abu Muhammad Al
galani Syria's deao leader has said
Israel is using false pretexts to
justify attacks on Syria but says he is
not interested in engaging in a new
conflict Mayan lubel is in Jerusalem
well Israel's announcement on Sunday was
mainly a declarative move Israel saw the
regime of Assad falling it's not a bad
thing for Israel but at the same time
the Israelis are suspicious of Syria's
new leadership is the return of Donald
Trump to the White House significant
here so Israel annexed the Golan Heights
in the80s and that was a Move That
Remains unrecognized by most
International Powers but during Trump's
first term in office he recognized isra
or declared support for Israeli
sovereignty over the Golan so it's quite
possible that Israel has Trump in its
mind when it makes such a declaration
Israel is closing its Dublin Embassy due
to what it describes as the Irish
government's quote extreme anti-israel
policies including recognition of a
Palestinian State as well as support for
international legal action against its
war in
Gaza South Korea's constitutional court
has begun reviewing the impeachment of
President Yun suuk Yul over his botched
attempt at martial law the court has up
to 6 months to make a call on whether to
remove him from office or re State him
prime minister H duu has stepped in as
interim leader until the court
[Music]
[Applause]
rules it's nearly a given for investors
that the FED will cut interest rates by
25 basis points when it meets this week
the more pressing question is will rate
Cuts continue next year Howard Schneider
covers the FED in Washington there's a
lot of uncertainty about what's coming
uh around the pike with the Trump
Administration coming in are you going
to get tariffs that lead to some price
increases are you going to get him you
know rounds of massive deportations as
they've said to expect that uh pull
workers out of jobs and and send them
back to a home country uh does that lead
to wage pressure so along with the rate
cut the messaging is important I would
expect it to be open the door at least
to the possibility that they're not
going to cut again in January uh they
don't want to set an expectation that
they're just going to keep going lower
lower lower with all this uncertainty
and with inflation as sticky as it's
[Music]
been president-elect Donald Trump's
transition team is recommending cutting
off Federal support for electric
vehicles and charging stations that's
according to a document seen by Reuters
the new Focus instead will be to
strengthen measures blocking Imports of
cars components and Battery materials
from China the world's biggest EV Market
Market Chris Kirkham has the exclusive
what this document shows is that the
Trump transition team is really looking
to undo sort of the Biden
administration's Federal investment in
EV and EV infrastructure overall this
sort of the supply chains that are
necessary to produce batteries for EVS
are also pretty important for the
military and for the defense industry
and a lot of it has to do with these
critical minerals lithium is one
graphite is another and a lot of this
supply chain is uh controlled by China
what the Biden Administration was trying
to do was get the United States to you
know sort of have its own domestic
supply chain that could fuel EV EV
batteries and really what this document
shows is that the Trump
Administration
is sort of doubling down on wanting to
cut off China and and but but also
they're basically saying the the supply
chain for EVS we want to really redirect
that away from and into these these
defense priorities and what they call
critical infrastructure priorities will
this impact Elon Musk yeah that's a big
that's a big question mark in all of
this electric vehicles are not Elon
musk's only business and so there there
could be there could be ways that SpaceX
might might also benefit from some of
this critical infrastructure he's
walking a tight RPP kind of between the
United States and China because Tesla
has an enormous business in China and uh
big production for facility in China as
well so what would this all mean for the
EV industry in the US losing the
consumer subsidy for Ev purchases is
going to have a huge impact on EV sales
in the United States and so will the
lack of federal money for charging
infrastructure charging is often cited
as you know kind of like a a top reason
that that people are hesitant to to
purchase EVS so so if an EV becomes more
expensive and there's not as much
movement on charging infrastructure
that's really going to set back the
transition to electric vehicles Trump
transition spokeswoman Caroline levit
said when he takes office Trump will
support the auto industry allowing space
for both gas powerered cars and electric
vehicles Canada has promised Donald
Trump a border Crackdown but as our
reporter Anna maor papery learned on a
recent ride along with the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police preventing
Crossings along the world's largest land
border is complicated we're a few
hundred meters if you look over here
this is pretty unfriendly ter it was
dark it was cold there was blowing snow
and what we saw was the challenge facing
police trying to stop migrants from
Crossing as RCMP Sergeant Charles parier
told me they can cross in the fields
they can cross through the forest which
is very dangerous by the
way and like you you can see it's
probably what now minus 5ish and there's
still water everywhere so the water is
cold as well they can arrest people who
cross Northbound into Canada but they
can't arrest you for looking like you're
about to cross into the United States
more than 23,000 people were apprehended
by US border patrol near the northern
border in the 12 months ending in
October of 2024 but it's still far
smaller than what we're seeing at the
Mexico border where one .5 million
people were apprehended by US border
patrol in the 12 months ending in
October so what are officials in Canada
actually able to do to prevent these
Crossings well they can beef up border
patrols they can use cameras and sensors
drones and helicopters but at the end of
the day sergeant parier told me even if
they were everywhere they still couldn't
stop
everyone in addition to the border
patrols we see residents taking matters
into their own hands I spoke with one
man
his name is Terry row he lives in
Champlain New York about a mile from the
Canadian border and he installed uh CCTV
cameras on his property to watch the
wildlife and uh then we started picking
up uh other than Wildlife migrants
coming south and he says he's seeing
more people crossing Northbound than in
the past and I think it's going to pick
up this is something that Canada is
bracing for anticipating that some
people fearing Trump's threat of mass
deportations might flee the US and try
to enter
[Music]
Canada for today's recommended read a
story about President Bashir al-assad's
Final hours in Syria he confided in
almost no one about his plans to flee
and don't miss our special weekend
episode where we hear from Royer's
journalist sullan Al khalidi who shares
a harrowing account of his experiences
of torture inside Syria's notorious
detention system a link to both the
story and the episode is in the Pod
description for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app don't forget to
follow us on your favorite podcast
player we'll be back tomorrow with our
daily headline show
[Music]
