today France's government is on the
verge of collapse the 2020 election
deniers who aren't going anywhere and
tackling the rise of be attacks in
Japan it's Tuesday December 3rd this is
reuter's world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Torah Oaks in Liverpool
[Music]
the White House has defended President
Joe Biden's decision to Pardon his son
Hunter the surprise move was panned by
Republicans but also by some Democrats
who say it threatens to undermine public
trust in the rule of law a concept Biden
and his party had used to criticize
president-elect Donald
Trump Tesla says it's going to appeal
the latest decision by a Delaware judge
to reject Elon musk's $56 billion
compensation package the decision comes
after months of legal wrangling and
January's decision by judge Kathleen
McCormack that called the pay package
excessive Donald Trump says there will
be hell to pay in the Middle East if
Hamas fails to release all the Israeli
hostages held in the Gaza Strip before
his inauguration writing on social media
Trump says those responsible will be hit
harder than anyone has been hit in the
long and St sted History of the United
States of
America in the Middle East itself in
Syria hundreds of Iran back Iraqi
Fighters have crossed into the country
to help the government fight Rebels who
seized Aleppo last week but sources tell
us that lebanon's Hezbollah has no plans
to join them for
[Music]
now the French government led by prime
minister Michel b is all but certain to
collapse later this week with farri
right National rally leader Marine Le
Pen confirming that her party would vote
for the leftwing coalition's no
confidence bill as well as her own
Michel Rose is in Paris Michelle the
government were relying on the pen
support to pass their budget how did it
come to this ever since the early
elections of this summer it was clear
that Leen could pull the trigger at any
time but people thought that she would
help him pass the budget because her
strategy has has long been to look
respectable to look like a reasonable
government in Waiting what's change for
her in terms of supporting the current
government well in November Marin Le Pen
had to go through a court case about the
use of assistance for European lawmakers
in her party they went into this trial
thinking it would go smoothly and there
was a big surprise with the prosecutor
saying they would request judges to ban
her from public office with immediate
effect and a lot of people think that's
something that changed her plans because
in March if judges decide to follow what
prosecutors requested she could be
banned from public office and in effect
miss the next presidential election ever
since her attitude and political
posturing really
hardened Intel CEO Pat ginger has been
forced out less than four years after
taking the helm the company's bored
having lost confidence in his turnaround
plan the faltering American chipm Icon
is now searching for a permanent
replacement Tech correspondent Max
churny covers the chips and AI sectors
Intel's last two quarters of results
have been weak at best and disastrous at
worst for the June quarter Intel
reported Financial results that
surprised Wall Street in a in a negative
way the stock dropped roughly 25% in the
trading session that followed the report
on top of weak financial performance
Intel announced that it was going to lay
off 15% of its staff which is over
15,000 people Intel
has thus far failed to produce an AI
chip that has made meaningful inroads
into this now critical segment in the
chip industry and as a result has been
unable to capture the enormous amount of
Revenue that has gone mostly to Nvidia
it doesn't have a new chip design for AI
coming until late 2025 according to the
company and on the last earnings call
Pat gelsinger got asked directly what
the plans are because it's not apparent
what the company is going to do to
participate in this massive growing
Market since winning the 2024 election
Donald Trump has gone quiet on his false
claims of voter fraud but the election
denial movement he spawned isn't going
away in fact in some parts of the
country it appears to be growing
stronger reporter Peter ler has been
covering the movement for months so
Peter the preferred candidate of the
election deniers won what are they up to
now well the one thing that the movement
is not up to is suggesting that the 2024
election was rigged in any way shape or
form those complaints have sort of gone
away they are still looking to push some
pretty Stark changes in the way that
Americans vote and they're looking to do
it ahead of the 2026 midterm elections
the 2026 Congressional elections and
they insist that they're responding to
legitimate concerns about election
integrity and suggesting appropriate
reforms but a lot of the reforms that
they're pushing are aimed at dealing
with problems that really don't exist or
certainly have never been documented to
exist and there's speculation from
election officials and sort of good
government groups that the real goal of
these changes some at least some of
these changes that they're pushing is to
sort of cement electoral advantages for
the Republic party a spokesperson for
Trump and the Republican National
Committee say Common Sense election
reforms are needed so Peter what are
some of the reforms that the election
deniers are trying to implement it
ranges from pretty modest reforms that
folks on sort of all sides agree are
necessary and helpful to some more
dramatic things like restricting early
voting and restricting mailin voting and
restricting the use of dropboxes which
are all things that many many Americans
have come to rely on as a way to cast
their vote more conveniently more easily
or even at all in cases of people who
you know might not be able to get to the
polls physically on Election
[Music]
Day this is Northern Japan and a massive
brown bear is being
captured it had been roaming near a
house and eating its way through corn
fields to keep people safe officials
turned to Hunters who lured the bear
into a cage using a deer carcass as
bait the threat of bear attacks in Japan
is rising and Sakura morakami has been
looking at how officials are
responding estimates show that there's
been a gradual but steady increase in
the bear population and what complicates
that problem is that the areas the Bears
are active are expanding and the Bears
are moving closer to human inhabited
areas at the Forefront of the issue is a
dwindling and aging group of
recreational hunters and they have the
license to shoot and are often called on
to call Bears when they're captured but
there isn't really a nationwide approach
to the problem so experts local
residents and Hunters themselves are
concerned about whether system is really
sustainable and how they can continue to
tackle the bear problem as Japan's
population declines why do officials
think bears are moving into those areas
now those areas have sort of depopulated
and there's less of a natural buffer
zone and the cycle of the ripening and
flowering of fruits and nuts the main
diet for Bears that's been changing so
that may be driving Bears to raid crops
when the usual food sources are low
and S there's also been calls to deal
with this human bear conflict in a way
that ensures a future for the Bears
right what other Solutions have
officials been looking at so the
government local governments as well
have a variety of programs and projects
and subsidies to try and help recruit
younger hunters and to kind of involve
technology into warding away bears and
Wildlife one of the that I talk to I
developed this a robot I guess called
the monster
[Applause]
wolf it has an infrared sensor that
reacts and when a bear or any kind of
wildlife passes emit these very loud
sounds to Ward the bear away
[Music]
time now for our recommended read all
about how a fuel oil smuggling network
is raking in a billion dollars a year
for Iran and its proxies the operation
exploits a government policy under which
Iraq allocates fuel oil to asphalt
plants at heavily subsidized prices and
involves a network of companies groups
and individuals in Iraq Iran and the
Gulf States you can read more about it
in the link in the Pod description and
for more on any of the stories today
check out reuters.com or the Reuters app
don't forget to follow us on your
favorite podcast player and we'll be
back tomorrow with our daily headline
show
