today what we know so far about the
ceasefire deal in Gaza what it means for
Israeli hostage families the population
of a devastated Palestinian enclave and
The Wider Middle East and how a
Crackdown on illegal mining in South
Africa has resulted in dozens of
dead it's Thursday January 16th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you to know from the front
lines in 10 minutes every weekday I'm
Jonah Green in New York and I'm Tara
Oaks in
London a painstakingly negotiated
ceasefire deal for Gaza and a final hour
hold up Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has accused Hamas of making
last minute demands and going back on
agreements it was unclear what impact
the latest delay will have on the deal
Israel's acceptance of it will not be
official until it's approved by the
country's security cabinet and
government last night when the deal was
announced celebrations on the streets of
K yunes and
Gaza after news that a ceasefire deal
between Israel and Hamas had been
reached Paving the way for an end to the
fighting a surge of humanitarian Aid to
Palestinian civilians and a return of
Israeli hostages held since October 7th
2023 it's a complex phase Accord
mediators say the first phase will take
effect on Sunday a 6- we initial
ceasefire with the gradual withdrawal of
Israeli forces from the Gaza Strip and
the release of hostages taken by Hamas
in exchange for Palestinian prisoners
held by
Israel in Tel Aviv the families of
Israeli hostages held in G gathered to
demand the release of all those who've
been held alive or dead eat Calderon
whose cousin was taken hostage said she
felt not Joy but relief we don't know
the situation of of all the hostages I
don't know if offer my cousin is still
alive or not negotiations on
implementing the second phase of a deal
will begin later that stage is expected
to include the release of all remaining
hostages a permanent ceasefire and the
complete withdrawal of Israeli forces
from
Gaza nadala mcrai is our senior
Palestinian correspondent based in Cairo
Nal what's the current situation inside
Gaza the need for Aid is enormous AIT
Nations to Palestinian official Gaza
will need at least a thousand trucks you
know like a day but according to the
deal there will be 600 trucks of Aid
going into Gaza every day it's not not
about food only for most will be in need
for medications will be will be in need
for new hospitals the city will be in
need to rehabilitate the uh electricity
Network the infrastructure the sewage
Network you know like everything is
destroyed and is in need for a
rebuilding what does hamas's future look
like with this deal so far Israel and
the United States do not want any role
by Hass in the day after in Gaza or to
have any role in in the government but
in the absence of an alternative it
seems that Hamas will have a role and
basically it is still
[Music]
standing so what about the impact of
this deal for the wider Middle East
Mayan luel is our senior correspondent
in Jerusalem in terms of The Wider
impact it will likely Quil tensions
possibly maybe open the door for for a
greater diplomatic deal between Israel
and Saudi Arabia it's very early days
and there's a big if it's a phase deal
stage two depends on stage one and if it
breaks down in the middle we could see
the whole deal unraveling and where does
this leave Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu hardliners in
netanyahu's government have come out
against the deal one of them has
threatened to bolt the government but
Net's government is not in imminent
danger of falling there's broad support
amongst the Israeli public as well his
political situation a few months ago was
one that kind of put any kind of
progress on the deal at risk I think the
Game Changer in the Dynamics and the
talks toward the deal was basically
Trump being elected and a lot of the
players netan at the mediators they all
had a vested interest basically in um
making Trump happy and getting the deal
over the Finishing Line both President
Joe Biden and president-elect Donald
Trump area credit for the ceasefire deal
that was months in the making a senior
Biden Administration official did credit
Trump's Envoy with helping deliver the
deal alongside Biden's
representative President Joe Biden's
final overal Office Speech opened with a
familiar message of unity as he looked
to seal a legacy Now overshadowed by
Trump's return to the White House but
the tone turned today
an oligarchy is taking shape in America
of extreme wealth power and influence
that literally threatens our entire
democracy Biden also warned of a tech
industrial complex bringing an avalanche
of misinformation and disinformation and
threatening the Free
Press Donald Trump's choice for attorney
general Pam Bondi vowed at her Senate
confirmation hearing not to use the US
justice department to Target People
based on their politics there will never
be an enemy list with within the
Department of Justice though she dodged
direct questions about investigating
people scorned by the president-elect
the Senate also probed Senator Marco
Rubio Trump's nominee to be Secretary of
State Rubio promised a robust foreign
policy based on American
interests Tik Tok plans to shut us
operations of its social media app on
Sunday when a federal ban is set to take
effect it's according to people familiar
with the matter the Washington Post
reported that Trump is considering
issuing an executive order to suspend
enforcement of the shutdown for 60 to 90
days the paper did not say how Trump
could legally do
so red flag warnings advising of extreme
Wildlife danger have expired across the
Los Angeles region the National Weather
Service says the rest fite will be short
when ideal fire conditions of high winds
and low humidity pick back up again on
Sunday
[Applause]
wall Street's main indexes soared on
Wednesday with the Benchmark S&P 500
touching a onewe high driven by lower
than expected December core inflation
data and robust quarterly earnings from
major US Banks us Finance editor lenan
Newan well the banks actually just
reported a blockbuster quarter mostly
because Investment Banking has done much
better deals are starting to return to
the market
companies are issuing debt and equity
and generally there is a more optimistic
tone as the Trump Administration takes
office people are expecting a more Pro
bus progrowth policy from the Trump
administration at least 78 bodies have
been pulled from a South African Mine
following a monthlong state Crackdown on
illegal mining a court ordered rescue
operation to clear the still Fontaine
mine has ended a standoff in which
police with held food and water from 200
miners for months our reporter cabanga
sishi was at the mine it's quite tensed
every day you get people who go there
with the hope that their loved one will
serice alive they're quite angry they
believe that the government has been
draging their feet in rescuing these
guys they are accusing the government of
mass murder some saying the government
must accept that they have blood in
their hands since the mind skin has
started you can actually see when they
have their alive illegal miners you can
tell that they are physically weak but
then on the other side you see all these
body bags and so these family members
are just hoping that my loved one has
used the exit on the one side people I
just could not take a risk anymore that
what if he's still alive I could not
just gamble with his life one of the
woman that I met at the mine her name is
Zin actually took the government to
court and to resume the operations so
she's coming there with the hope that
the brother will surface but
unfortunately that has not happened why
is the government taking such an extreme
stance at this mine this operation
called operation valam they identify
areas where these abundant shafts are
being used by illegal Miners and they
seal them up so we've been seeing these
notes coming up to surface these guys
asking for food the ones that were
actually extracted in the past they've
appeared in court facing various charges
but will we see and to Illegal mining I
don't think so the indication from the
police if there isn't anybody
underground the rescue operation will
come to an end but operation valam will
not end the South African government has
defended The Siege as part of a
necessary Crackdown on illegal mining
the police have also denied blocking the
miners exit they say more than 1,500
Miners did get out by their own means
between the start of the siege in August
and the rescue operation which began on
[Music]
Monday and for today's recommended read
a preview of the annual World economic
Forum in Davos armed conflict is the top
risk in 2025 according to a we report
and it's a stark reminder of a deepening
Global divisions as government and
business leaders gather in the Swiss
Alps next week There's a link that story
in the Pod description for more on any
of the stories from today check out
reuters.com or the Reuters app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back tomorrow
with our daily headline show
