today Syria's Mass Graves
exposed in Cyclone ravaged myot fears
over hunger and disease Trump steps up
his legal threats against news outlets
plus another Trump nominee struggles in
her confirmation
bid it's Wednesday December 18th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Jonah Green in New York and I'm
Carmel crims in
Dublin evidence emerging from Mass grave
sites in Syria is exposing a state run
Machinery of death under toppel leader
Bashar al-assad that's according to an
international war crimes prosecutor
Anthony Deutsch has the story We visited
a couple of sites in Syria colleagues of
mine in Syria and what they saw and what
they heard from Witnesses was a large
scale or two large scale Mass Graves
where hundreds and likely thousands and
possibly even more of bodies were buried
over a period of years uh during the
Civil War and what's new about this is
that while we knew that there were
widespread atrocities and there were
were some witnesses who came out in past
years who talked about it but what's new
now and and has has surprised many and
also many in Syria itself is the scale
and the organization that was involved
and we spoke to a the leading
international prosecutor Steven rap who
visited two of these sites and he
described the the scale of it and the
organization and how and neighbors told
us that they had seen Refrigeration
trucks coming out to these sites several
times a week carrying hundreds of bodies
that were buried in deep trenches dug
with bulldozers so Steven rap he said
that he is convinced that there were at
least a 100,000 bodies buried possibly
at just two sites alone and what's going
to be important now is that all these
sites are protected and preserved D so
that that information can be dug up
literally by prosecutors who are going
to try to build cases against those who
were
responsible authorities in my yach are
concerned about hunger and disease
spreading in the wake of last weekend's
devastating
Cyclone thousands are feared dead in the
poorest of France's overseas territories
president Emanuel macron heads there on
Thursday amid criticism that his
government has neglected the island
tassel oh huml is in myot and sent us
this dispatch we arrived in G the main
island of mayot this morning after the
ferry linking the two the smaller one
has the airport went back into service
now we went into mudu and Ki the
neighboring Shanti town and being here I
mean you can see destruction everywhere
there's barely of some of some places
there's barely anything left people all
tell me that the hills of May mayot very
hilly and very very very green area they
all used to House people who were just
living there in their Shacks between the
trees and that's basically all gone no
or barely any tree has left and none of
the shags at least where I'm standing
seems to be left the only buildings that
are still standing are those built of
brick and mortar but almost all of them
have no roof and so irons hammering on
iron sheets um is the main sound I'm
hearing here this
morning Russia says it's detained a
citizen of usbekistan who was confessed
to planting and detonating a bomb which
killed a top General in Moscow Ukraine's
sbu intelligence service has claimed
responsibility for the assassination of
aigor krilov accusing him of being
responsible for the use of chemical
weapons against Ukrainian troops Moscow
denies the
accusation Luigi mangion has been
charged in New York with first-degree
murder and murder as a crime of
terrorism for the killing of United
healthc Care CEO Brian Thompson here is
Manhattan district attorney Alvin Bragg
this was a frightening well-planned
targeted murder that was intended to
cause shock and attention and
intimidation menion is currently being
held on gun charges in Pennsylvania
[Applause]
it's a big day in the auto sector Honda
and Nissan are in talks about a possible
merger as a way of competing against
Tesla and Chinese Rivals the two firms
had already forged a strategic
partnership back in March but Nissan's
deepening financial and strategic
trouble has U the ante Honda is four
times bigger than Nissan and a tie-up
would create the world's third largest
Auto Group by vehicle sales after Toyota
and Volkswagen shares of Nissan closed
nearly 24% higher on the news while
shares of Honda declined
[Music]
3% president-elect Donald Trump has
filed a lawsuit against the De Moine
Register newspaper and its top pollster
the lawsuit filed Monday night seeks
quote accountability for Brazen election
interference over its poll published in
early November that showed kamla Harris
leading Trump by 13 points in Iowa and
in my opinion it was fraud and it was
election interference earlier this week
ABC News agreed to give $15 million to
Trump's Presidential Library to settle a
lawsuit over comments that anchor George
Stephanopoulos made on air Trump in
recent days has stepped up his legal
threats against news outlets and said he
would also consider suing social media
influencers and others for
defamation legal reporter Jack Queen is
in New York Jack suing a pollster for a
bad poll is unusual if not unheard of
does this case have any Merit it is
unusual and you know he's also suing
ganette the parent company of the paper
and the experts I've talked to mostly
think this probably isn't going to go
anywhere I mean just initially based off
the allegations they're leveling that
the pollster JN Seltzer intentionally
revised the numbers downward with the
expressed intention of hurting Trump's
chances I mean that that's be a really
difficult thing to prove so the de moin
register told us in a statement that
they acknowledged that the poll was
flawed but that they stand by their
reporting and that they think the suit
is meritless cost a lot of money to do
it but uh we have to straighten out the
Press our what do legal experts make of
this tactic there are plenty of experts
both in media and legal circles who are
saying that all of this is really
contributing to an increasingly hostile
environment for the Press you know there
was a lot of speculation that ABC
settled this case despite having a
potentially strong hand because they
feared retribution from the Trump
Administration now of course that's just
speculation we can't know why ABC did
what it did and also just today here on
Tuesday uh in another ongoing case he
has against Simon and Schuster the book
publisher related to its use of audio
recordings that its author Bob Woodward
made of trump his lawyers specifically
cited this settlement in a letter to the
judge and they were saying they hope
that Simon and Schuster will quote
follow Mr stephanopoulos's expression of
Contrition so I think it's safe to say
that the threat of more of these
lawsuits coming against media companies
is very real a spokesperson for ABC said
the network was pleased that the parties
had reached an agreement to dismiss the
lawsuit president-elect Donald Trump's
cabinet nominee tuls gabard is meeting
with Republican Senators on Capitol Hill
to show up support for her bid to become
Director of National Intelligence and
while no Republican has publicly opposed
her nomination sources tell Reuters that
behind closed doors some are sending
mixed signals about voting to confirm
the former Democrat reporter Patricia
zangerle is following the story one
thing that we've heard and this is from
transition AIDS and others familiar with
the process is that as many as eight
Republicans have expressed some sort of
reluctance about voting for Gabbert it's
a lot they can only afford to lose three
if the Democrats hold together and all
vote against her there have been reports
that gabt has underwhelmed in her
interviews that she hasn't seemed as
well prepared as Senators would like
that her lack of experience in the world
of
intelligence has really shown and
there's concerns about her record on
Syria especially in light of recent
events in Syria the change in government
there and she has been plagued
persistently with talk that she is too
close to Russia which she of course has
denied in a statement Trump transition
spokesperson Alexa Henning noted that no
Republican senator has publicly said
they would vote against gabbard
[Music]
and for today's recommended read an
exclusive on SpaceX a September power
outage at its California facility caused
a loss of ground control for at least an
hour during a mission that included the
first private space walk in history a
link to that story is in the Pod
description for more on any of the
stories from today check out rs.com or
the ruers app don't forget to follow us
on your favorite podcast player we'll be
back tomorrow with our daily headline
show
