as the war between Russia and Ukraine
grinds closer to a fourth year on the
periphery trouble is brewing we have
recently uncovered a staggeringly
reckless campaign of Russian sabotage in
Europe Russian aggression and more
subtle acts of hybrid Warfare are
forcing members of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization or NATO to confront
a new reality on the European
continent Russia and also China have
tried to destabilize our nations with
acts of sabotage cyber attacks and
energy blackmail to intimidate us none
of these actions will deter us from
supporting Ukraine this must be
underpinned by a clear path for Ukraine
to join the European Union but NATO is
split over support for Ukraine and as
Northern and Eastern Europe fortifies
its defenses and braces for further
Russian hostilities NATO which for 3/4
of a century has aimed to unite Europe
and North America against the threat of
Soviet expansion is navigating fraught
Waters if Putin is allowed to succeed in
reducing Ukraine to a vassel state he
will not stop there our security British
French European and
transatlantic will be jeopardized in the
30 years since the fall of the Soviet
Union never has NATO's mandate been more
urgent than now NATO allies will
continue to stand together to face these
threats it's something of a moment as a
new Iron Curtain threatens to fall in
Europe I'm Christopher wal Jasper in
Chicago I'm joined today by our senior
European security correspondent Sabine
zebold Sabine has been reporting on
Europe and NATO for 20 years hi saine
hello from Brussels now Sabine the
political landscape across Europe has
changed drastically since the war in
Ukraine began nearly four years ago how
does that uh impact NATO yes let me just
take a step back we've got countries in
the South who might be more concerned
with terrorism or migration so there's
all kinds of different interests there
that need to be realigned and Germany
and France in the past have been doing
that the problem is over the past years
we've seen that this motor has started
to stutter how so we have domestic
turmoil in both countries we've been
seeing that Germany is heading into snap
election at the moment because the
government collapsed a few weeks ago
there's a lot of political turmoil in
France so there's a risk that it may not
not be able to function much at all
which comes at a real real bad time at
the moment we're waiting for the Trump
Administration to take office and having
the stuttering motor of France and
Germany might actually put the EU at a
great disadvantage at a time when its
Unity would really be needed most as it
is faced with such a potentially
demanding new US president and an
ongoing war in its neighborhood in
Ukraine and as you mentioned Germany and
France they're not the only ones guiding
the direction of NATO the other big
player is the US so how are EU NATO
members uh preparing for Donald Trump's
second term and the very real
possibility of a scaled back us presence
in the alliance it's very difficult for
NATO obviously because the United States
is the dominant power military power
within NATO so you could call the
American Military the backbone of the
alliance also the idea for for for NATO
for Europe was always that in the case
of Russian attack or a looming uh
conflict Europeans would act as the
First Responders with their troop
Holding Out for a few weeks while
waiting for us reinforcements coming
over the Atlantic to support them that
we've had uh tens of thousands of
American troops stationed in Europe this
number has shrunk but there there's
important American bases in Europe still
but what we've seen for a longer time
actually is that the focus of the US is
pivoting towards Asia especially China
is seen as one very important theater
the other thing we know is that the
American Military would be overstretched
if it were to serve in more than two or
three theaters of War so just by doing
the math the Europeans will have to
watch out for themselves much more they
will have to invest much more into their
defense than before and they will be
less able to rely on that protection by
the Americans yeah the other point
that's crucial for European Defense is
the United States is a nuclear power and
its nuclear umbrella protects many
European countries most of whom unlike
France and Britain do not Avail of their
own nuclear weapons so there's a few
American nuclear bombs spread out all
over Europe to be carried by national
fighter jets German fighter jets other
fighter jets to their targets in case of
a war so that's interesting what is
NATO's Secretary General Mark Rua doing
to try to keep the US engaged in a
meaningful way I mean r is quite fresh
at the head of NATO but one of the
reasons he was picked as new NATO leader
was the fact that he's seen as an
experienced bridge builder an integrator
he's also said to have a good
relationship with Donald Trump have him
being called Trump Whisperer actually so
what R has been doing since taking
office in October he has stressed that
it was part due to Trump's insistence
during his last term that a record
number of 23 out of the 32 allies now
meet Nat's 2% military spending goal
that's 2% of national GDP and that's in
comparison to just three countries
meeting that Target one decade ago and R
also has made it clear that allies will
need to get used to the fact that they
will have to spend much more than 2% in
the future to to cater more for their
needs in defense Trump uh has called for
the Target to be raised to 3% and he has
called out allies not meeting the goals
as free writers we know from NATO
diplomats that R when he went to see
Trump at maral Lago he very much
stressed the link between the war in
Ukraine and the indo-pacific with North
Korean troops now deployed in the coast
region in Russia and Trump obviously
sees China in the indopacific region as
much more important for the yes and
Ukraine so by drawing that link R is
actually trying to keep Trump to keep
the US engaged in NATO to prove to them
Hey listen NATO the alliance is also
important for you
now as you noted NATO isn't a monolith
right there are different regions with
varying interests and and risks um how
are members say in the Nordic or Baltic
states preparing for a possible
escalation of conflict with Russia yeah
I think first of all we might want to
mention that of course the Baltic states
um do have a lot of experience with
Russia with the Soviet Union they were
occupied and they have always had a much
much more hawkish position towards
Russia than Germany for example Baltic
States they're seen as one of the most
vulnerable spots of NATO if you look at
the map you know they're basically
squeezed in between kaliningrad bellarus
and Russia and it's only a very short
land Corridor it's 60 or 70 kilomet long
that actually connects them to Poland
and thereby to na
Mainland and if you talk to military
sources they will basically tell you
it's going to be very hard to defend but
obviously this Corridor is one main
Supply route but there's only a few
Railway connections and there's only a
few streets that actually connect Poland
to to the Baltic countries so in case of
a conflict in case of War it would be
very very hard to keep that open which
means all the Baltic countries would
have to be resupplied with troops with
arms with everything they need via the
Baltic Sea or by plane so what NATO
decided to do after Russia's invasion of
Crimea in
2014 is they established multinational
battle groups in the Baltic countries
and Poland so each of these countries
got one multinational battle group each
comprising around 1,000 troops and led
by one specific country and these units
Were Meant to act as a trip wire in case
of a Russian attack as some sort of
first responders to have boots on the
ground while waiting for more
reinforcements to follow and following
Russia's fullscale invasion of Ukraine
in February 22 the Allies decided to
reinforce these existing battle groups
while at the same time establishing four
more of these battle groups in Bulgaria
in Hungary and Romania and Slovakia so
they effectively doubled the number of
troops on the ground right on the
Eastern flank with troops from the
Baltic in the North to the Black Sea in
the South so NATO has positioned these
units across Eastern Europe but a lot of
the tensions right now are not fullscale
war at least not on NATO soil what other
sort of attacks are we seeing on NATO
Nations right now okay so overly what
we're seeing is that Russian President
Vladimir Putin has ordered his Armed
Forces to be beefed up to 1.5 million
soldiers he's ramping up arms production
and together with the experience Russian
troops have gained in the war on Ukraine
where Russia is combining modern
Technologies such as drones with World
War I style trench warfare and the use
of heavy artillery Western Security
sources now believe that Russia will be
capable of attacking NATO territory by
the end of this decade but hybrid
Warfare It's a blend of measures below
the threshold of an allout kinetic War
but hybrid Warfare can also include
spread of disinformation cyber attacks
all kinds of other measures that play
out in this gray area between War and
Peace it's just not like tanks rolling
across a border it's much harder to
attribute in many cases and and to
actually get under control for like the
last half a year NATO has accused Russia
of stepping up a campaign of hybrids
against NATO allies since its fullscale
invasion of Ukraine in 22 this campaign
includ it's an increasing number of
cyber attacks spreading of propaganda
we've also seen aen attempts and acts of
sabotage it's a few countries that have
reported such incidents it's Poland it's
Germany it's Britain it's Czech Republic
so the latest incident in mid November
we saw that two telecommunication cables
running along the seab bed of the Baltic
Sea were cut security sources say
responsible was the Chinese bulk carrier
which came from from a Russian port and
basically dragged its anchor on the seab
bed thereby damaging these cables in
Swedish economic Waters however it has
not been proven yet whether this
happened on purpose or by accident
there's other examples in Germany
incendiary devices were found hidden
inside Air Freight parcels and they
caused Fires at wherehouse in leig
that's a huge hub for DHL the parcel
company so Germany's domestic
intelligence Chief has said the country
narrowly avoided the plane crash another
case that security sources also suspect
Russia is behind but that obviously
raised suspicions also in that DHL plane
crashed a few weeks ago in Lithuania so
how are these acts of uh hybrid Warfare
being carried out in such a way that
they aren't easily pinned on any one
country that's quite interesting
actually if we are talking about these
acts of subot
what security sources tell us is that
Russia is increasingly hiring sucks and
pet criminals for a few hundred EUR
posting jobs on telegram for example
this means the actions are one deniable
and two they spare scarse Russian
resources how is Russia and I guess in
the case of the Baltic Sea China
responding to these accusations so
Russia's response to accusations about
hybrid taxs has simply been to item for
example when the head of Britain's MI5
said in October that Russian military
intelligence was trying to sew mayam in
Europe with awen sabotage Kremlin said
the allegation was unacceptable and
unfounded the line from Moscow Is that
West is in the of russophobia and
automatically blames everything bad that
happens there on on Russia China in the
case of the Baltic Sea has agreed to
take part in the investigations but we
don't know more yet
now we mentioned it earlier but I want
to dig a little deeper into how Donald
Trump's second term in the White House
might impact the stability of NATO first
and foremost Trump says he'll end the
war in Ukraine in a day although he's
given little detail of how he'd do that
uh what does that mean for NATO and uh
broader Security in the region we might
see peace negotiations but there's also
concern in the West that Russia might
simply use any l in the fighting to
basically beef up its own forces and to
to gain strength again for another
attack that's also something that
Ukraine is afraid of so that's one of
the reasons why they actually say okay
we won't settle for anything less than
NATO membership that would mean that
they will benefit from from Article 5
which is the mutual defense Clause one
for all all for one and second option a
troop presence with a good chance for
Europeans to provide the troops to take
part in the burden sharing the Trump
demands still given that the front line
is longer than uh 1,000 kilometers this
might put a huge strain on Europeans and
Trump's got a penchant for ripping up
Broad coalitions in favor of bilateral
deals during his first term he pulled
the us out of the intermediate range
nuclear forces treaty how might that
approach impact
he he has that history but in fact I
think the INF treaty is actually a bad
example for that because I think most
NATO countries would really rally behind
that the INF treaty signed in
1987 between the United States and the
Soviet Union actually one of the
cornerstones of arms control it outlawed
nuclear and conventional ground launched
missiles with a range between 500 5,500
kilm and by doing that it actually
eliminated an entire category of weapons
I mean most people are normally talking
about icbms about intercontinental
ballistic missiles so these shorter
range missiles may not sound as
important but we have to remember
missiles with a shorter range are seen
as particularly dangerous because they
have shorter flight times and ICBM will
travel around half an hour before
hitting its Target so this gives you at
least this half hour to potentially run
checks with your adversary and clear
things up a ballistic missile with a
shorter range might only take minutes
before impact which significantly
reduces the warning time and time to
figure out whether it might just be a
false alert before retaliating with your
own missiles so the reason the Americans
quit the INF treaty in
2019 was that they accused Moscow of
violating the Accord and they had done
so even before Trump took office Russia
has denied these accusations but I think
in the question of the INF treaty NATO
is actually standing behind Trump
because if the Americans had been
sticking to the treaty it would have
bound their hands and I mean we've seen
the oresnik missile a few weeks ago yeah
that oresnik missile is a short-range
missile that would have violated the INF
treaty what threat does that weapon's
capability pose to Nato we know that
Putin has used nuclear Ric before to
intimidate the west and he's done so on
several occasions this one the launch of
the oresnik is taking escalation a
little bit further and Security Experts
see the launch on November 21 as Putin
saying look I do have nuclear weapons
and I might just use them first of all
while Nat will immediately register that
such a missile has been launched Western
experts have no way of telling whether
the missile is armed with a nuclear or a
conventional Warhead and second once the
missile has been launched its trajectory
can be calculated but especially right
after the start the Precision of this
calculation only goes so far so in the
case of the oresnik this means that NATO
would not have immediately been able to
discern whether the missile would hit a
location in Ukraine or actually NATO
territory something bound to cause real
alarm
well so you mentioned earlier NATO's
ground troop preparation but in the
event that Russia is able to scale up
this type of armament how is NATO
prepared for a larger scale attack uh
similar to the oresnik this one is
really difficult because air defenses I
I think is one of the most complicated
topics basically you're trying to hit a
bullet with a bullet and there's several
layers of air defense in November 2022 a
straight Ukrainian air defense Missile
hit polish territory that incident
actually highlighted huge gaps in NATO's
air defenses there actually was a belt
of these systems based along the border
between Western and Eastern Germany
meant to to protect NATO territory from
any Soviet attacks after 1990 many NATO
allies scaled down the number of air
defense units to reflect the assessment
that they would from now on only have to
deal with a limited missile threat
coming from countries such as Iran not
like a peer adversary such as Russia
Germany was NATO's Frontline State
during the Cold War and at the time
Germany had 36 Patriot units today the
German forces are down to nine Patriot
units after donating three of them to
Ukraine Berlin has ordered eight new
units but it will take years until they
are delivered demand is higher
everybody's queuing up and the
production takes a long time for example
Germany Spain Netherlands Romania and
Sweden have ordered 1,000 Patriot
missiles which is huge if you're talking
you know that's amounts of missiles that
we haven't seen anytime since the Cold
War Okay so we've discussed heightened
threats of military strikes from the air
uh NATO readying ground troops
psychological warfare sabotage
Espionage it feels like we're on the
cusp of a new Cold War I think we can
say that what people are talking about
all these topics that have come back is
there enough bunker space for the
population do we still have Sirens to
warn our citizens I mean I grew up in
the 80s when we still had siren drills
at school today many cities don't even
have any Sirens left now they are
wondering will our warning apps still
work in a war where the power grid might
be affected this all smells very much
like a cold war atmosphere again to me
and it is a marked contrast to the
decades after the fall of the Iron
Curtain I mean after 1990 many NATO
allies drastically shrank their forces
they got rid of thousands of tanks and
scrapped heavy weapons such as Howies in
the belief that Russia simply no longer
posst an existential threat there was a
belief that NATO would have a grace
period of of 10 years to rearm in case
Russia turned hostile again and I've
mentioned it before suffering from
Russian invasions in in the past Eastern
European NATO allies have been more
hawkish and vilant than some of their
Western neighbors who did not take their
warning seriously but in the end it took
Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine
in 2022 to cause a fundamental
turnaround so if you ask me are we in
new Cold War I would say yes definitely
and in some ways it even feels hotter
than the cold war in the 80s this time
we have a war raging on European
territory involving Russian forces in
Western weapons and many arms control
treaties that were in place in the80s
have collapsed in the
[Music]
meantime thanks to Sabine for sharing
her extensive reporting and expertise
you can read more of her reporting at
reuters.com
Reuters world news is produced by Jonah
green Gail Issa Sharon R Garson David
Spencer and myself Christopher wal
Jasper our senior producers are Tara
Oaks and Carmel crims our executive
producer is Leela Deeter engineering
sound design and music composition by
Josh
summer we'll be back on Monday with our
daily headline show to make sure you
never miss an episode follow us on your
favorite podcast player or download the
Reuters app
