today Trump orders plans for large-scale
cuts to the federal Workforce Netanyahu
threatens to end the Gaza ceasefire as a
Saturday deadline looms a new frontier
in the Space Race opens up in Africa as
China builds new
alliances and how countries are
responding to Trump's economic
threats it's Wednesday February 12th
this is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Jonah Green in New York and I'm
Carmel crims in
Dublin if a judge does block one of your
policies part of your agenda will you
abide by that ruling will you comp I
always abide by the courts and then I'll
have to appeal it but the Oval Office on
Tuesday with President Donald Trump
ordering US Agencies to step up efforts
to shrink the federal Workforce despite
legal challenges to the cuts standing
alongside him with his four-year-old son
was Elon Musk whose Department of
government efficiency team has been
tasked with overseeing the layoffs I I
don't know of a case where an
organization has been more transparent
than the Doge organization musk also
defended his role as an unelected
official and called the federal
bureaucracy an unconstitutional fourth
branch of government
Tuesday's executive order is the latest
effort by Trump and musk to shrink
government departments and align with
Trump's policy
priorities so thank you very much we had
a busy day today the king just left and
we the king that Donald Trump is
referring to is Jordan's King Abdullah
who he pressed to take in Palestinians
under the president's controversial
proposal for the Gaza Strip Trump
signaled he won't budge on his idea
which he's build as a r era of the
Middle East but King Abdullah reiterated
Jordan's steadfast position against the
displacement of
Palestinians at the same time Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was
sending a warning about the delicate
state of the ceasefire in
Gaza in a TV address Netanyahu said the
military would resume fighting Hamas if
the Palestinian militant group did not
release hostages by midday Saturday it's
unclear if he meant some or all of the
remaining hostages following netanyahu's
address Hamas issued a statement
renewing its commitment to the ceasefire
and accusing Israel of jeopardizing the
[Music]
truce you know the I think the standard
case for free trade and all that
logically still make sense appearing
before Congress Federal Reserve chair
Jerome Powell vouched for the strength
of the economy though he deferred on
questions about tariffs Elon musk's role
in government and other Trump related
issues and in any case it's not the
fed's job to make or comment on tariff
policy reporter Howard Schneider covers
the FED Howard so Powell was a bit tight
lipped about tariffs but at what point
might American consumers see an impact
well we don't know any of this yet to be
honest because he hasn't done anything
everything has been proposed and then
delayed if you put a 25% tariff on
Mexico who pays that is it going to be
the consumer all the way Downstream is
it going to be a grosser a retailer a
wholesaler along the way is the grower
back Upstream going to take some hit to
their margin this is known as tariff
incidence it's really how the tax is
distributed across all the different
people that might pay it so this is the
issue as the FED keeps saying we need to
know what's going to get taxed at what
rate over what time and it's only then
can you start to sort of model out what
the impact might be now the question
also is obviously everyone's response if
you get a tariff here and then another
country responds and then you respond
and they respond that starts to get
inflationary and countries are
responding to Trump's economic threats
Mark John is our European economics
editor Mark we've heard a lot about
Mexico and Canada's pledge to put more
troops on the US border in exchange for
deferred tariffs what have other nations
been doing to head off the risk of
tariffs or or even the threat of
outright resource grabs okay so there's
been quite a few other countries doing
this take for example uh Japan so it's
long had a a big Trade Surplus with the
United States that Trump doesn't like
and when prime minister shuru ishiba
visited the White House last week they
talked about Investments That Japan
could make in America in fact raising
the amount of of Japanese investment to
$1 trillion and of course Trump also
announced what he called progress on
nipon steels blocked 14.9 billion
attempt to take over us deal so he said
that any bid must take the form of
investment rather than an outright
purchase if we move on to India then so
India is previously labeled by Trump a
very big abuser on trade India has
actually been long very keen to
emphasize its Readiness to open its e
economy so we know for example that
India is considering tariff Cuts in at
least a dozen sectors from Electronics
to medical and surgical equipment and
chemicals and we think that Modi may
also propose increased us energy and
defense Imports which of course will go
down probably very well in Washington
and then there's Trump's pressure on
NATO members to contribute more of
course NATO's Secretary General Mark
Rutter said last week that there will be
new military spending pledges to be
decided this year that would be
considerably higher than the existing 2%
of GDP Target we do not know however
where this spending is coming yet and
how long it's going to take those
European allies to get where Trump at
least feels they need to be and if
you're interested in how Trump's
threatened trade war is impacting what
central banks are up to both in the US
and overseas check out this week's
episode of reuter's econ world it's out
later today on the Reuters app or
wherever you get your
[Music]
podcasts in other news he's a very happy
guy tonight so I I feel like the
luckiest man on Earth right now American
school teacher Mark fogal has been freed
by Russia he was picked up in Moscow by
Middle East Envoy Steve witkoff and
welcomed home at the White House by
President Trump Fogle was released 3 and
A2 years into a 14-year sentence for
holding medically prescribed
marijuana Trump said another person
would be released today without
identifying
who the first senior official in Trump's
Administration heads to Ukraine this
week and its treasury secretary Scott
bessent on the agenda us access to
Ukraine's Rare Earth minerals and energy
assets that's according to a source with
knowledge of the matter both Trump and
the Ukrainian President Vladimir
zelinski have expressed interest in
cutting a deal under which the US would
receive rare Earths from Ukraine in
exchange for support to counter
Russia and Sunday's Super Bowl TV
audience turned out to be the largest
ever for a single Network telecast
that's according to the neelon ratings
agency almost 128 million viewers tuned
in for the NFL Championship broadcast by
Fox 3 2 1 ignition
LIF while the US still has by far the
biggest space program in the world China
is catching up and Reuters has learned
that Beijing is building space alliances
in Africa to enhance its Global
surveillance Network and Advance its bid
to become the world's dominant space
Power Joe Brock is our Global Aerospace
editor so Joe how does this partnership
between China and Africa work exactly on
the space side it's essentially an an
aid partnership so China is offering
financing is offering technical
knowledge is offering equipment to
African countries in order to help them
with economic development help them with
the types of things like agriculture
fighting climate change that is
ostensibly the public face of this
partnership and the private side so the
space equipment that Beijing is placing
in develop veling countries is according
to the Pentagon and former US
intelligence officials that we spoke to
is helping China to create a global
surveillance Network you know they are
democratizing space to enhance an
authoritarian capabilities is how one
former spook told us China's response to
those accusations is to say that the US
is in no position to defame China
because of its own record of spying the
spokesperson for the Chinese Embassy in
Washington said the US is the world's
largest surveillance State and they deny
categorically that they use their
Partnerships in order to advance
military interests what is it they're
sending over it's a combination of
equipment there are satellites which
China builds and launches for these
countries the countries then operate
those satellites there are also
satellite ground stations which are
essentially where they collect the data
and the information from space and there
are telescopes observatories which are
the eyes on the skies where you're
looking up and looking at what is in
space including satellites which may be
yours or could be your
[Music]
enemies and for today's recommended read
we take you inside the collapse of
Nissan and Honda's $60 billion merger
talks the negotiations unraveled just a
month in with corporate pride and denial
partly to blame for more more on any of
the stories from today check out
reuters.com or the Reuters app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back tomorrow
with our daily headline show
