[Music]
today an avalanche of early actions from
US president Donald Trump how the
January 6th pardons have sparked Fury
and concerns it will embolden
extremists what a US withdrawal from the
World Health Organization could mean for
Global Health initiatives and Trump's
attack on diversity equity and inclusion
[Music]
begins it's Wednesday January 22nd this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Christopher walljasper in Chicago
and I'm Tara Oaks in
Liverpool president Donald Trump began
his first full day in office attending a
prayer service at the national cathed in
Washington DC it was at that service
that he got a sermon he may not have
been expecting from Episcopal Bishop
Maryann Edgar buddy there are gay
lesbian and transginger children in
Democratic Republican and independent
families some who fear for their lives
she also made an appeal on behalf of
immigrants fearing deportation Trump was
asked what he thought of the sermon
later in the day I didn't think it was a
good service now thank you very
much I have one message for president
Trump I'll see you in court California
attorney general Rob bonter 22
Democratic Le states have sued over
Trump's plan to roll back Birthright
citizenship after he ordered government
agencies not to recognize the
citizenship of american-born children if
neither parent is a US citizen or legal
permanent resident
Prince Harry has settled his lawsuit
against Rupert Murdoch's news group
newspapers over alleged unlawful
information gathering his lawyer says
that a deal has been reached to settle
the
lawsuit Houston Texas New Orleans and
other parts of the US far south saw as
much as 8 in of snow on Tuesday the
storm also brought ice and strong winds
that threatened dangerous conditions for
the region with more than 900 flights
out of Houston canceled on
Tuesday Israel has launched a military
operation in the West Bank describing it
as an offensive against iranian-backed
militants it comes just 2 days after the
Gaza ceasefire took hold in just 24
hours after Trump lifted sanctions on
Israeli
settlers and in Turkey nine people have
been detained in connection with the ski
resort fire at a hotel which has killed
76 and injured
[Music]
dozens Trump has announced a private
sector investment of up to $500 billion
to fund infrastructure for artificial
intelligence Trump says that chat gpt's
Creator open AI soft bank and Oracle are
planning a joint venture called Stargate
which will build data centers and create
more than 100,000 jobs in the United
States in 2021 Capitol Police Officer
Brian snik was assaulted during the
January 6th Riot the next day he died of
multiple
strokes this week our reporter Nathan
Lane called up his brother Craig just
wanted to get your reaction on on the
pardons um after Trump pardon the men
and women who stormed the capital well
how I view it is my brother died in vain
everything he did to try to protect the
country to protect the capital snik did
not mince words uh what Trump did is
Despicable hundreds of riers were freed
on Tuesday including Stuart rhods the
former lead of the far right oathkeepers
group he spoke to reporters after being
freed did you feel emboldened and
perhaps legitimized and validated by the
Trum I don't feel embolden I feel I feel
I feel yes I feel Vindicated and
validated yes absolutely of course I
Trump has described the riots as a
peaceful day of love so Nathan the
former leaders of both the proud boys
and the oathkeepers are now out of
prison what message might that send to
extremist groups it's a very strong
message to his supporters that what they
did on January 6th in His Name by trying
to overturn the election which he still
falsely claims was stolen from him that
they were in the right and that even if
if violence occurred in a sense it's
okay extremist experts who track
political violence have said they're
very worried that this sends a message
to these extremist groups like The Proud
boys that you know essentially whatever
they do in the name of trump or for
Trump will not be punished and so it it
sets up this incentive structure for
them to look out for opportunities to
help them
out so we paid $500 million to World
Health I was here and I terminated it
president Trump withdrawing the us from
the World Health Organization with the
stroke of a pen on Monday seemed a
little unfair to me the move sent Global
Health leaders scrambling to prepare for
wh without the US involvement our Global
Health reporter Jennifer Rigby is in
London covering the Fallout Global
Health experts around the world have
said this is a blow the health of the
world and also a blow for the United
States right that's the argument they're
making that it's not just about the rest
of the world this could also affect the
US because diseases don't respect
borders so in a pandemic situation being
out of the who is a risk for everybody
so what could the removal of us funding
in particular mean for the services that
the who provides around the world the US
is the biggest fun for the who but only
about 100 million of it is money they
have to pay because of the size of their
economy the rest of it is voluntary
funding right earmarked so they can
choose what that money is spent on
within wh and in the past that's been
things like fighting HIV uh tackling
tuberculosis and also Health emergencies
are all funded very heavily by the
United States sometimes up to 34s US
money goes into those programs okay so
what happens next so under us law the US
now has to give a Year's notice to leave
The Who and it also have to pay any
outstanding fees so that year a lot of
global Health experts are going to
defend that time trying to change the
Trump administration's mind and you know
it could be seen that this is kind of
like an incend sort of opening of a of a
negotiation right where you say okay
we're out unless you do this and that
kind of remains to be seen exactly what
the US would want from wo in order to
stay and what the W could or would give
but you know there's a lot that could be
done with us funding under an
Administration that wanted to change it
without having to leave the
[Music]
wh the first female uniformed leader of
a branch of the US Armed Forces has been
fired by the Trump Administration a
senior official at the Department of
Homeland Security saying US Coast Guard
commandant Admiral Linda Lee Fagan was
fired because of leadership deficiencies
operational failures and inability to
advance the Strategic objectives of the
US Coast Guard adding on condition of
anonymity that one of the reasons was
Fagan's excessive focus on diversity
equity and inclusion or Dei policies
Fagan's firing comes less than 24 hours
after Trump signed off an executive
orders to eliminate Dei programs in
federal government
agencies we will Forge a society that is
colorblind and Merit
based race and Justice reporter Bianca
flowers has move the removal of Linda
Fagan as commod uh for the US Coast
Guard aligns with Trump's broader reach
and an approach to limiting or
redirecting Dei programs across federal
agencies ban was very much known for her
advocacy efforts and Dei policies in
regards to recruiting more women
retaining Talent from under represented
groups so I think her removal is very
telling of possibly what else is to come
for folks that are in positions that
have have been proponents of Dei looking
at these executive orders on Dei can
they extend beyond federal agencies they
can have broader implications for
businesses and contractors who depend on
federal government funding these could
be Federal contractors nonprofits
educational institutions that may have
to reassess Dei programs to comply with
some of these new directives Fagan and
the co guard could not immediately be
reached for
[Music]
comment and for today's recommended read
we take a look at Trump's approval
rating at the start of his term around
47% of Americans are happy with his
presidency according to a reuter's ipsos
pole higher than it was during most of
his first term there's a link to the
story and the graphic of a poll in the
Pod description for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app don't forget to
follow us on your favorite podcast
player we'll be back tomorrow with our
daily headline show
