today new tariffs are expected on steel
and aluminum the federal courts blocking
Trump Administration policies how a
directive recognizing just two Sexes has
scientific papers in limbo the US Farms
milking the AGR tourism boom and the
Philadelphia Eagles sought a victory in
the Super
[Music]
Bowl it's Monday February 10th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tara Oaks in
Liverpool any steel coming into the
United States is going to have a 25% tar
what about aluminum sir aluminum too
Trump announcing his new plan to slap
25% tariffs on All Steel and aluminum
Imports into the US on board Air Force
one on route to the Super Bowl and
sitting next to a map labeled Gulf of
America the top sources of us steel
Imports are Canada Brazil and Mexico and
the fate of Prior Metals tariffs
exemptions for the US's neighbors to the
North and South is now unclear full
details of his reciprocal tariffs are
due later in the week he says they'll
apply to all countries and matching the
rates levied by each country very simply
it's if they charge us we charge them
that's all
[Music]
[Applause]
investors are weighing up Trump's latest
trade intervention Carl kin has more so
within the metal sector Trump's comments
had an immediate impact shares of
producers in Europe and Asia fell and
the dollar jumped but overall Global
stocks are mixed European Shares are
rising and US Equity Futures are up some
investors are clearly looking through
Trump's tariff threats seeing them as a
negotiating tactic we take a deep dive
into Trump's tariff strategy in the
latest episode of Reuters econ world you
can catch that pod on the Reuters app or
wherever you listen to your
[Music]
podcasts at Super Bowl 59 in New Orleans
the Philadelphia Eagles ruthlessly
crushed the Kansas City Chiefs bid for a
third title in a row winning 40 points
to 22 Jaylen Herz was voted MVP as he
guided the Eagles to a second Super Bowl
championship in the franchise's history
in China the number of marriages has
plummeted by a fifth the biggest drop on
record last year's fall is despite
efforts by authorities to encourage
young couples to marry and have children
to boost the country's declining
population Ecuador's presidential
election will head to an April runoff
after incumbent center right Daniel
naboa and left-wing Challenger Louisa
Gonzalez finished Sunday's vote in what
authorities call a technical
[Music]
tie Trump's Furious pace of orders
slashing foreign aid sending troops to
the border and pardoning violent
criminals has met Little Resistance in
Congress federal judges are delivering
the strongest signal yet of a looming
Showdown with the rule of law over the
weekend a federal judge in Manhattan
temporarily blocked Elon Musk and his
doge government efficiency team from
Treasury Department systems that process
trillions of dollars of payments judges
have also temporarily prevented
Administration policies from dismantling
America's foreign aid agency altering
transgender rules and adopting a plan to
buy out thousands of federal workers
vice president JD Vance appears to have
suggested on X that the courts were
overstepping writing judges aren't
allowed to control the executive's
legitimate power Tom H is our legal
reporter what opponents are doing is
they're going to court hoping that
federal judges will step in and put a
stop to this and to some degree that's
starting to emerge but we're going to
start to see in the next few weeks more
thorough action taken by courts we're
going to really start to see the limit
of Trump's power but that just means
that some of these questions will
eventually come before The Supreme Court
then what when he came to power eight
years ago it was a different Supreme
Court now the Supreme Court has a 63
conservative majority three of those
members were appointed by Donald Trump
in his first ter the courts are seen as
much more conservative they're seen as
much more amendable to more conservative
views of the laws and a lot of
conservative Scholars have really wanted
to get some of these issues before The
Supreme Court well one way to do that is
for Donald Trump to issue these
executive orders that sort of gets a
case moving that uh might wind up before
the Supreme Court one of those is going
to be the birthright citizenship that
that clearly seems Bound for the Supreme
Court it asks the most fundamental
question about our about the United
States which is who is an American um
but other ones that are likely include
questions about the president's ability
to remove members of independent boards
these cases that he's setting up to to
get to the Supreme Court may you know
drastically enhance and create a much
more muscular sort of presidency that
can wield the power of the pen in a way
that really wasn't accepted even in his
first
[Music]
term scientists are struggling to
respond to a trump Administration order
recognizing only two Sexes male and
female the directive applies to all
research that features work from the US
Centers for Disease Control and
prevention scientists and includes a
review of their work that has already
been submitted for publication for
Content now banned by the federal
government Nancy leit has been looking
into how this could affect studies about
specific populations and diseases the
directive issued by the federal
government uh says that CDC
Publications can no longer mention
several words including transgender
LGBT biologically male biologically
female so if a paper was written
entirely by CDC researchers that would
mean that that research cannot be
published basically this means that the
government is limiting what doctors will
eventually be able to learn about
certain diseases and how to treat them
one area that this new regulation will
impact particularly strongly are in the
areas of sexually transmitted diseases
where uh not being able to talk about
genders will be very limiting HIV for
example the hum human imuno deficiency
virus that causes AIDS is a particular
problem in transgender and LGBT
communities and if that can't be
discussed it's going to severely limit
what uh researchers can learn and how we
can prevent it and treat it what's been
the reaction among researchers I spoke a
few days ago with the editor-in-chief of
the American Journal of Public Health Dr
Alfred
Moravia who said that this is
censorship and it goes against the First
Amendment he believes many researchers
have said that their fear is that their
grants and funding won't be
renewed so I'm Britt Thompson and I own
pink River Ranch we focus on AGR tourism
and we livestock and do farm dinners and
are really focused on bringing people
out and having them a connection to
agriculture the farm sits on a dead end
Road in rural
Wisconsin it's dotted with fluffy
Icelandic sheep and Shaggy coated
Highland cattle a pick to perfect
Retreat for the explosion of urbanites
who want to spend time in the
countryside and has become an extra
source of income for Farmers like
Thompson who face an agricultural
recession
Heather Schlitz has been digging into
the4 billion AG tourism industry the
agricultural economy is incredibly
unstable it could get worse if tariffs
go into place but farming in general
it's it's extremely volatile you're
completely at the mercy of the weather
you're at the mercy of Futures markets
and what they are doing um so a lot of
people see AGR tourism as this way to
get a steady flow of income every year
you can have of your visitors you know
come to your Airbnb or whatever you know
spring summer and fall and you know how
kind of how much income you're going to
be getting from them I mean you have um
farmers who run airbnbs who also sell
you know homemade pickles or grown on
their farm and they sell cuts of meat
from their own livestock so you once you
get people to the farm there are a lot
of opportunities for consumers to buy
other things and what do experts think
the potential future looks like for AGR
tourism it is a huge industry it's grown
by I think 77% over the past 5 years
Some Farms can make between 25,000 and
some can make you know over a million
dollars it kind of started during the
pandemic when people couldn't go to
cities to Vacations so they choose to go
to the countryside where things are more
isolated and more safe from covid and it
seems like the growth hasn't necessarily
slowed down since then
our recommended read today takes us to
South Africa where gaping land
inequalities persist between black and
white communities but a new law seeking
to address that is seen as an assault on
property rights by some including Trump
who weighed into the discussion last
week a link to our article looking at
how the laws impacted relations between
white and black communities is in the
Pod description for more on any of a
stories from today check out roots.com
or the rors app don't forget to follow
us on your favorite podcast player and
we'll be back tomorrow with our daily
headline show
