today Biden's death sentence
commutations and how they'll frustrate
Trump's plan to expand executions
details of Matt Gates's house ethics
report reveal the scale of allegations
against the former congressman and how
Christian leaders in Syria are advising
their followers to enjoy a scaled back
Christmas this
[Music]
year it's Tuesday December 24th this is
reuter's world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Christopher wal Jesper in Chicago
and I'm Tara Oaks in
Liverpool President Joe Biden is
commuting the sentences of 37 death row
inmates converting them to life in
prison without parole the decision is in
direct opposition to president-elect
Donald Trump who says he plans to resume
executions at the federal level once
he's in office White House reporter
Nandita Bose has been digging into
Biden's decision so President Biden was
under a lot of pressure from
congressional Democrats human rights
groups Pope Francis weighed in and they
wanted him to do away with the death
penalty and there was this consistent
pressure building on the president for
the past several months and he did not
do away with the death penalty entirely
he still left three men on the death row
for crimes they've committed but he
definitely moved the needle when it
comes to doing away with the death
penalty was a huge step forward what did
Biden have to say about his reasoning
for for making this decision uh Biden
said he was Guided by his conscience and
that he was convinced that the death
penalty at the federal level needs to be
stopped and that he couldn't stand back
and see
a new Trump Administration resume
executions that that he had stopped when
he got into office so 37 out of 40 who
are the three individuals whose
sentences he didn't commute right so it
it leaves out three um of the most
actually well-known men it's uh Zar SAR
who was convicted of the Boston Marathon
bombing in
2013 and then there was Robert Bowers
who was convicted for the mass shooting
at the Tree of Life synagogue in
Pittsburgh in 2018 and then Dylan rof
who was convicted for the shooting at
the church in Charleston in 2015 and the
reason these three men were left out is
because Biden's decision does not apply
to cases of terrorism or mass murder all
three have their have filed their
appeals you know and and and legal
challenges to their sentences which is a
proc process that can take Years and may
not happen while Trump is in
[Music]
office Matt Gates former Florida
congressman and briefly president-elect
Donald Trump's pick for attorney general
allegedly paid a 17-year-old young woman
for sex and purchased drugs illegally
dating back to
2017 that's according to a house Ethics
Committee report made public on
Monday our legal reporter Andrew
godsword is based in DC and is covering
the Fallout I think the most surprising
thing is is the the scale of this we
knew I mean Congressman Gates has been
facing allegations in this area for
quite a long time but this report really
laid out in detail how long it lasted
and how many people were involved the
report found that he paid more than
$90,000 to about 12 different women from
2017 until 2020 and the report found
that many of those payments were for
illegal drugs or for sex and now he's
already dropped out of consideration for
a cabinet appointment but what sort of
Fallout could Gates see from this it's
unclear I mean obviously this could
become an issue if Gates wants to try to
get back his house seat or potentially
Run for the senate in Florida we know
that he's already been announced to to
join the the right-wing news
organization one America News Network as
a host there she's already been
criminally investigated over these
allegations by the Department of Justice
and they told him last year that he was
not going to face charges how has Gates
responded he issued a statement on X on
social media before it came out
basically characterizing this as his
generosity to what he called former
girlfriends or people that he dated he
has denied having sex with anyone who's
underage but he also didn't agree to
speak under oath with the
committee Luigi mangon has pled not
guilty to charges of terrorism and
murder in the December 4th fatal
shooting of health insurance executive
Brian Thompson in
Manhattan if convicted mangon faces life
in prison without the possibility of
parole Donald Trump says he'll consider
not shutting down social media site Tik
Tok may we got to keep this sucker
around a little while you know the US
Senate passed a law last April requiring
Tik tok's Chinese parent company bite
dance to divest the app citing National
Security concerns the app could be
banned in the United States by January
19th though bite dance is fighting the
law and the US Supreme Court has agreed
to hear the
case and the Trump transition team is
planning to pull out to the World Health
Organization on day one that's according
to a health law expert familiar with the
discussions Trump kickstarted the
one-year exit process in 2020 during his
first term but Biden later reversed the
decision Sudan has dropped dropped out
of a global hunger monitoring system a
move likely to undercut efforts to deal
with one of the world's largest hunger
crises it comes as the integrated food
security phase classification system or
IPC is due to release a report that's
expected to show famine spreading across
the country the sudin government has
accused the IPC of issuing unreliable
reports to undermine the country's
sovereignty a Russian cargo ship has
sunk in the Mediterranean Sea between
Spain and Algeria two of its crew are
missing according to the Russian foreign
Ministry the ship went down after an
explosion in the engine
room in Israel the defense Ministry has
publicly admitted for the first time to
killing Hamas leader is Hanya hania was
assassinated in tan in
[Music]
July Chinese authorities have agreed to
issue 3 trillion Yuan that's over $400
billion worth of special treasury bonds
next year it would be the highest number
on record as Beijing ramps up its fiscal
stimulus to revive a faltering economy
China is trying to soften the blow from
an expected increase in US tariffs on
Chinese Imports When Donald Trump
returns to the White House in January
the move underscores beijing's
willingness to go even deeper into debt
to counter deflationary forces in the
world's second largest
economy now to Syria where church
leaders are advising Christians to scale
back Christmas celebrations this
year despite assurances from the
islamists who have just taken power that
they are free to practice their religion
Amina isma is in Damascus the deao ruler
Ahmed has repeatedly assured them and
said that Christians other religious
minorities will be safe in the new Syria
and will have equal rights but there has
been a few incidents that took place
over the last two weeks that are
triggering these fears for example on
December 18th a group of armed men
raided a church in HS open fire tried to
destroy a cross destroy the Christian
Cemetery the church leaders called HTS
and they said in in a statement that
they quickly sent people and it was
dealt with swiftly but that's not the
only incident like for example I've seen
SUVs driving in predominantly Christian
areas blasting jihadist songs and
although Christian leaders or have every
time they have reported any of these
incidents to HDs they would distance
themselves from them and they would
apologize and promise that they're still
trying to restore security and order in
in in in the country but they're still
worried so Christian leaders in in
Damascus for instance held a meeting and
they decided that they will scale back
on their Christmas celebrations this
year meaning that they will keep any
kind of celebrations inside the premises
of the church unlike what they used to
do in previous
years for example they Santa that was
connected to the church would walk
around the streets and distribute sweets
and things in the area but they decided
for this year it's they're going to keep
it inside the church to avoid any kind
of Confrontation and provocation with
these armed men who are just roaming
around the streets for now they're
cautious they're waiting to see whether
HCS and Ahmed Shar will be able to
contain all these armed groups and give
them their freedoms and rights that they
used to
[Music]
have and today's recommended read is the
Story of O kolesnikov A Ukrainian
citizen turned Russian spy there's a
link to that story in the Pod
description for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app don't forget to
follow us on your favorite podcast
player we're taking a few days off for
the holiday but we'll be back on Friday
with our daily headline show
