today Russia agrees to stop attacking
Ukraine's energy infrastructure for now
what renewed Gaza strikes mean for
Israel's internal politics Nvidia
reassures investors of its AI dominance
and splash down as astronauts Butch and
sunny return to
Earth it's Wednesday March 19th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tara Oaks in Liverpool and I'm
Sharon R Garson in New
Jersey first to some breaking news from
Turkey where president T erdogan's main
political rival has been detained ekram
IM mamago is the popular mayor of
Istanbul and is being held on charges
including corruption and aiding a
terrorist group group the main
opposition party has called it a coup
against our next president the
government denies the claims and says
the Judiciary is
independent it's not the ringing
endorsement of the ceasefire plan that
US president Donald Trump had hoped for
but Russian President Vladimir Putin has
agreed to stop targeting Ukraine's
energy infrastructure for 30 days
Ukraine says it'll support the scaled
back agreement and the White House says
talks on a more complete ceasefire and a
permanent peace deal will begin
immediately our foreign policy editor
John dery is following the talks Putin
has really stuck to many of the
conditions that he has laid out
previously many analysts commented after
this call that it really seemed like he
was trying to play for time here he
willing to come to the table but he
actually hasn't given up all that much
you can assume that attacks on Ukrainian
forces on the front lines will continue
and even with the energy infrastructure
I think it's worth noting that it may
benefit Russia more than it benefits
Ukraine one area of success that Ukraine
has had is its longrange drone attacks
on Russian oil facilities which has been
quite painful for the Russians looking
ahead to further talks what can we
expect prior to his call with Putin
Trump had said that some of the issues
that will be discussed is territorial
concessions as well as the of this
nuclear power plant japara that the
ukrainians have said that they want back
and if the ukrainians and the Europeans
are not directly involved in those talks
they're going to be sitting by pretty
anxiously watching for the outcome of
whatever might be discussed and
potentially agreed in those discussions
ultimately none of this happens unless
Ukraine agrees to it right and they're
not going to just roll over here we've
also got a Reuters exclusive out this
morning on how several US National
Security agents agencies have halted
work on a coordinated effort to counter
Russian sabotage disinformation and
cyber attacks it eases pressure on
Moscow as the Trump Administration
pushes Russia to end its war in Ukraine
you can read the full story by following
the link in the Pod
[Music]
description the Chief Justice John
Roberts says it was wrong for Trump to
call for the impeachment of a federal
judge who order a halt to the removal of
alleged Venezuelan gang members Roberts
says the correct response would have
been to file an
appeal and Trump has released material
related to the 1963 assassination of
President John F Kennedy the documents
have appeared on the National Archives
website with more than 80,000 expected
to be
[Music]
published Israel is not backing down
after air strikes which killed more than
400 people in Gaza according to the
Palestinian Health
authorities prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu warning that it's just the
beginning Israel will fight and Israel
will win we will bring our people home
and we will destroy Hamas we will not
relent the renewed attacks on the Gaza
Strip prompting thousands of Israelis to
protest in Tel Aviv
[Applause]
for the view from inside Israel we're
joined by our bureau chief James
McKenzie so James with these renewed air
strikes we've also got the reappointment
of hardliner itar Ben as minister of
National Security into netanyahu's
government what does that tell us then
Ben left the government after the
ceasefire agreement which he agreed with
and now the ceasefire agreement is seems
to be the dead letter at the moment the
question that a lot of people are asking
about what happened yesterday is this
the definite and Final End of any
attempts to reach some kind of ceire
agreement or is this essentially a kind
of way of pressuring Hamas into making
more concessions metan himself said
yesterday that 65 attempts would
continue only Under Fire so it seemed to
suggest that it's not the end of
everything but it's certainly a
different phase and a different approach
and I think that what's persuaded benua
to come back and there's also been
resistance among reservists right the
reserv to spent a lot of time uniform
and the kind of public
enthusiasms waned obviously so there is
a bit of a question about what form this
latest episode in the war is going to
take are we going to see a repeat of the
big invasion of Gaza by land and part of
the calculation on that will be whether
or not the sort of basic public support
is there for these massive engagement
[Music]
reserves the Federal Reserve wraps a
two-day meeting today with most Market
Watchers expecting no change to the
federal funds rate but as the Board of
Governors released their long-term
projections for the economy our fed
reporter Howard Schneider is here to
break down what we might expect if they
do this once a quarter all 19 of them
will say where they think uh the year
will end in terms of growth GDP
unemployment inflation and the federal
funds rate that they think would be
appropriate alongside that and look you
know since the election in November
they've relied a lot leaned a lot on
this idea that uncertainty is growing
you know you see this in consumer
sentiment you've seen stock markets
decline you've saw a jump at import
prices suggestion there may have been
some front loading with tariff purchases
that drove up prices already a little
bit so we'll see when they say now here
we are in March what things are going to
look like at the end of 2025 you might
see a little bit of a Nick to growth a
little bit of a bump up in inflation and
then you know what do they think is
going to happen with the unemployment
rate and of most interest where is the
federal funds rate going to end up and
for a deep dive into US economy and the
recession fears swirling around it check
out the latest episode of Reuters econ
world it's out later today on the
Reuters app or wherever you get your
podcasts chipmaker Nvidia is holding its
annual developer conference this week
and CEO Jensen Wang presented the
keynote address how you
doing how do you like how do you like
your new physics engine you like it huh
hang defended the company's lead in
selling costly AI chips to customers
which has recently been questioned by
investors after China's deepsea made a
competitive chatbot with allegedly fewer
AI chips but his presentation failed to
reassure investors Nvidia shares fell
3.4% we caught up with our Tech reporter
Steven Nellis just outside the
conference to learn more so Stephen at
the big keynote on Tuesday what was
Jensen Wang's big reveal so the big
reveal is a chip that will not be here
for another two years however that's
very normal in this industry and the
actual chip is just part of a bigger
system that Nvidia is designing here so
Nvidia is actually designing a whole
bunch of different chips that come
together into these giant racks and then
you put thousands and thousands of those
together inside a data center that
consumes hundreds of megawatts or even
gigawatts of power and that is what
produces these incredible AI systems
that we're seeing these days and that is
what Nvidia is supplying all the parts
you need to make what Jensen hang calls
an AI
Factory and splash down crew n back on
Earth that's the moment NASA astronauts
Butch Wilmore and sunny Williams and
their families have been waiting a long
time for their weeklong mission into
space turning into a 9mon adventure
their return was celebrated not just at
Nasa but also in India
people dancing and singing and letting
off fireworks in garat in Williams's
ancestral
Village she and Wilmore will now spend a
few days at NASA Johnson Space Center in
Houston for health checks before being
reunited with their
[Music]
families our recommended read today is
about changes to bull fighting laws in
Mexico City which have been welcomed by
animal rights activists but angered fans
of a centuries old tradition the
measures aimed to make bull fighting
less harmful to both bulls and matadors
there's a link to a story in today's pod
description for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app don't forget to
follow us on your favorite podcast
player we'll be back tomorrow with our
daily headline show
