today America has given us an
unprecedented and Powerful
mandate Donald Trump wins the US
presidential election in a stunning
political comeback four years after he
left the White House and Republicans win
control of the Senate with victories in
West Virginia and
Ohio it's Wednesday November 6th this is
reuter's world news news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tara Oaks in Washington
[Music]
[Applause]
DC frankly this was I believe the
greatest political movement of all time
Donald Trump has won back the presidency
predicting a golden age for the country
because we're going
to help our country heal we going to
help our country he here's our
correspondent Andy Sullivan here in
Washington DC in the end it wasn't
particularly close Donald Trump easily
winning the states he needs to recapture
the presidency Trump also will have the
Senate on his side that means he's going
to get the appointments he needs for key
posts in his administration and think
about there's another Supreme Court seat
that opens up he'll be in a position to
fill that as well the main story here
appears to be inflation in the economy
voters clearly upset over this topic and
holding it against the Democrats who are
in charge while we saw that real sharp
spike in inflation postco other issues
abortion rights concern over democracy
that sort of stuff that Democrats
thought would work for them clearly
taking a back
seat so you won't hear from the vice
president
tonight but you will hear from her
tomorrow is not who the crowd wanted to
hear from at the kamla Harris watch
party Cedric Richmond the co-chair of
the presidential campaign addressing her
supporters at Howard University many had
already left anticipating that they
wouldn't be hearing from the vice
president who had hoped to turn
president-elect Jeff Mason was at Howard
University what are her next steps
likely to be Jeff The Next Step will be
for the vice president to concede and
she's likely to speak to her opponent at
some point and then she's likely to to
do a a speech at Howard to address her
supporters and and thank everyone who
did everything that they could for her
campaign this is a devastating loss for
Harris and for her supporters certainly
people were expecting and hoping in her
Camp to have a historic night that's why
they were doing at Howard University in
the first place it's her Alma matter
it's a historically black University and
she would have been the first black and
South Asian woman and woman in general
to be the the president of the United
States if she had been elected so it's a
big blow to her supporters and to
everyone who worked on her campaign and
the question will be how they move
forward from
here well leaders have been quick to
react after Trump's speech in Florida
among the first was Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu who began
his post on X dear Donald and Melania
Trump he described the moment as
historic adding that it offers A New
Beginning for America and a powerful
recommitment to the alliance with Israel
his language was echoed by hungary's
prime minister Victor Orban who called
it the biggest comeback in US political
history in Ukraine President Vladimir
zinsky expressed hope that Trump's
commitment to peace through strength
could bring an end to the war with
Russia closer French president Emanuel
Mel has also issued his congratulations
while NATO Chief marut says he looks
forward to working with Trump and that
his leadership will be key to keeping
the alliance
strong so how did Trump do it exit polls
showed he tapped into a sour National
move and in particular and happiness
with the cost of living Brad Brooks has
been crunching the data really he's
overperformed everywhere in almost every
County where we've finished counting the
votes Trump is doing better this year
than he did in 2020 some places that's
quite a bit better but it's true in
Rural America it's true in small cities
medium cities big cities suburbs
including a lot of the places that kamla
Harris had counted on to be sort of her
bull workk it is just this very
broad-based but maybe not very deep
movement to the right in the American
electorate apart from the drama at the
top of the ticket there's plenty of news
to unpack from the down ballot races as
well so for that we turn to our us
politics editor Scott Malone Scott what
do we know so far coming into the night
Republicans were expected to win a
majority in the US Senate and that has
transpired they were easily expected to
pick up West Virginia that's the seat
held by um currently by Joe Mansion Who
for a long time has was a Democrat and a
thorn in the side of the democratic
party who late in his term changed his
affiliation to the independent he
decided not to run again and his seat
was won by the state's Governor Jim
Justice in addition to that in Ohio
which is a state that's trended very
Republican Democrat shered Brown was
beaten by Bernie Moreno and so
Republicans control the Senate as well
what does that mean for a trump
presidency a senate majority would give
give Donald Trump an easier path to
confirming judges to the federal bench
as well as uh Supreme Court Justices
should a vacancy become available over
the next two years it should be said
that Trump and Biden both spent a lot of
energy a lot of time in the Senate
during their times and office spent a
lot of energy and time in filling
vacancies on the Judiciary so there
there aren't as many vacancies at this
point outstanding for a Republican
Senate to take on in the next couple of
years apart from some of these flipped
seats there are some newcomers to the
House and Senate who are newsworthy in
their own right right there are there
are newcomers and there are historic
firsts most notably representative elect
Sarah McBride of Delaware will become
the first openly transgender person to
serve in the US Congress McBride is a is
a state senator who ran and won a
competitive primary for Delaware is at
large seat and easily won her election
on Tuesday night in addition to that we
have another historic first and that is
that the the US Senate for the first
time will have two black women among its
members that's Angela also Brooks of
Maryland and Lisa blunt Rochester of
Delaware so how about markets how are
they reacting to the election results KL
crimmins has the details the Trump trade
is in full swing US Stock Futures and
the dollar are surging treasury bonds
are falling and Bitcoin has hit a record
high Trump's policy on trade and
immigration are seen as inflationary and
that's what's boosting the Greenback his
pledge to cut taxes and SL regulations
are seen as good news for stocks and
Bitcoin but bad for the deficit and
that's why you're seeing the drop in
bonds and Beyond the US the Mexican peso
has tumbled on fears it could be hit
hard by
[Music]
tariffs for more reaction to Donald
Trump's Victory from around the world
stay across rs.com and the roter app
we'll be back tomorrow with our daily
headline show for more analysis on what
his win means and to never miss an
episode click follow on your favorite
podcast player
