a firefighter soaks a burning car on the
outskirts of rala in the Israeli
occupied West
Bank local resident almaas Omar says he
was awoken by the sound of explosions
and found a group of Israeli settlers
torching cars we were ready for them to
march in and shoot us and kill us that
was what we thought was going to happen
Amal Abdel halim a Palestinian American
was doing schoolwork at her family's
house in the West Bank when her home was
attacked we heard gunshots and windows
breaking it was terrifying I've never
experienced something like this in my
life Violence by Jewish settlers against
Palestinians in the West Bank has drawn
International condemnation and sanctions
by the US and European countries now the
leaders of the settler movement reject
this violence and say it has no place in
their cause they say the expansion is
essential to the survival of Israel and
their hope and belief is that the next
US president
agrees it touches on one of the most
contentious issues between Israel the
Palestinians and the International
Community in this decades long conflict
most countries deem Jewish settlements
built on land Israel captured in 1967 to
be illegal Israel disputes this and
sites historical and biblical ties to
the land on today's weekend episode of
Reuters world news the jubilant view of
Donald Trump from Israel and what if
anything we can glean from his staunchly
pro-israel cabinet picks about his
stance in the Middle East will the
Israelis find a fierce defender in the
47th president or will he go his own way
I'm your host Jonah green
settlement Construction in the West Bank
reached record levels in
2023 but since the war started in Gaza
last October that activity has
exploded criticism from the Biden
Administration has done nothing to stop
it essentially it's a dispute where you
have international law butting up
against claims of biblical entitlement
and it's a microcosm of the broader
regional conflict
our senior political correspondent
Jonathan Saul spent some time with the
leaders of this group in these
settlements and joins us now from
Jerusalem hi Jonathan hi Jonah so you've
written a piece about the view from
Israel and and these settlements in
particular over Trump's Victory and I
want to unpack that view and whether
it's an accurate read as to what Trump
might in fact do in his second term uh
in this region but I I first want to
talk about these settlements you spent
the last few weeks speaking with the
people there how do they view the
incoming president yes so I I visited
one of the settlements called Shilo
which is a Biblical ancient site that's
revered in Judaism and the Jewish Bible
and also by Christians and essentially
that's one of the places where Jewish
settlers live and essentially they see
their role very much as as being part of
also creating facts on the
ground and since October the 7th they
see their role as becoming very much
more important to the security of the
state of is
we believe that a strong America will
mean a strong Israel so one of the
people that I met and spoke to is
somebody called Elana pentin she's a
resident of one of the settlements
called Elie and she also works with the
binyamin Regional Council which is one
of the big Council organizations that
looks after a lot of the settlements and
her view is very much unequivocally on
the importance of the settlements and
the future of what they call Judean
Samaria has been pivotal to the security
of the state of Israel but also ensuring
that Jews have the right and ability to
live in those areas and actually extend
and expand their ability to live in
those areas many of the people in the
new Administration have been here to
Shilo with us have prayed with us have
tored with us have come because they
understand the Biblical significance and
how important this is to
Israel Palestinians view what Israeli
settlers are doing from a completely
different perspect perspective they want
to create a future State under what is
termed the two-state solution and their
aim is to create a state in the West
Bank and Gaza with East Jerusalem as its
capital all these areas were captured in
the 1967 war Palestinians say Jewish
settlements and their expansion in the
West Bank fatally undermine that
aspiration so Jonathan tell us about
these two conflicting Visions the
Palestinian and Israeli view of this
land what do these settlers say the two
sides of the issue really comprise the
Israeli View and the Palestinian view
the Israeli view essentially is one
where they see their Divine and biblical
right to settle in areas under Judea and
Samaria which is the biblical name for
the areas in question and they see that
as very much their role and their right
to do so the Palestinians see it
completely differently they see those
areas as areas where there are lots of
Palestinian Villages and towns and
essentially they want that as part the
rump for a future Palestinian state so
if land is taken and settle settlers and
settlements are expanded that's going to
compromise any possibility for them to
have their own contiguous state which
would be called Palestine is really
Finance Minister bezel smotrich one of
the most prominent pro-settler
government ministers has said he hopes
Israel could absorb the West Bank as
early as next year with the support of
the Trump Administration prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has not announced any
official decision on the matter and a
spokesman for his office declined to
comment senior Palestine Liberation
Organization official wul Abu yusf said
any such action by the Israeli
government quote will not change the
truth that this is Palestinian land now
Jonathan we opened our show today
talking about these violent attacks by
Israeli settlers against Palestinians
which the group's leadership condemns
but if not through violence or
intimidation how exactly are these
settlements growing so rapidly on
disputed land in principle the idea is
that they are using land which has been
appropriated by the state of Israel and
they purchase the land to build
settlements that's the official
authorized so to speak way of doing it
but there's also these so-call Outpost
um essentially they're illegal
Gatherings of people either Farms or
Caravans that just appear in areas of
uninhabited land between Palestinian
Villages towns and Israeli settlements
and they just turn up and start living
there and then the next step is to try
and establish themselves as a recognized
small area a small village and then gain
status once they gain status then it
becomes easier to put as they call
So-Cal facts on the ground where they
become a recognized settlement but in in
principle the expansion is already
taking place de facto by the state by
approp cating land which then becomes
controlled by the uh official Israel
land Authority and then it's up to the
groupings whatever they might be
settlers or potential buyers of land to
acquire that from the state they don't
see that as illegal in any shape or form
because as far as they're concerned
they're buying land that's recognized by
the state of course international law
and the International Community takes a
different view on that but that's how
they perceive their acquisition of this
land what is the current US View of this
expansion and how might that soon change
the Biden Administration like every
single successive us Administration
apart from the first Trump government
has been opposed to expansion of Jewish
settlements in the West Bank on the
basis that they see it as a disruptor to
any peace deal between Israelis and
Palestinians but also that it takes away
any possibility for a contiguous
Palestinian State Trump on the other
hand completely uprooted that principle
by tacitly acknowledging the Jewish
right to settle in the West Bank and he
also recognized the sovereignty of the
goolan heights so he already created a
change in the legal structure and legal
parameters of what previous US
governments have held the big question
is what is he going to do next when he
comes into Power he certainly appointed
very Pro settlement figures the next
Ambassador for the US to Israel is Mike
hakabe Mike hakabe is unequivocally said
he only recognizes judian Samra he does
not recognize Palestinian state or any
Palestinian rights or claims to the West
Bank whether that has any impact upon
Trump and Trump's decision makers is a
big question mark hakabe himself has
said it in interviews in the past couple
of weeks he cannot dictate the course of
action that Trump will pursue but
certainly all the indications and signs
are that they're certainly much more
open to the idea of it than Biden's
Administration or previous Democrat and
previous Republican Administrations as
well who certainly held a level of
caution if not alarm at growth of
settlements by
Israelis so you're in Jerusalem what's
been the reaction to Trump's Victory
there across Israel when the the results
started to filter through of Trump's
Victory there was a sigh of relief
across many parts of Israel rightly or
wrongly the perception being that Trump
was much more supportive of Israel there
was even a a massive banner across a
building in in Jerusalem which said
Trump make Israel great again that very
much encapsulates and sums up the mood
of a lot of Israelis within Israel you
then have to break it down into um the
ones who are supportive if not directly
involved in settlement expansion and
they they see this as their best
opportunity to consolidate their control
over the West Bank but also that they
see potential for greater support by the
Trump Administration for them to carry
out a lot more activities which will not
just expand but also consolidate their
control over that area Trump has not
revealed his plans for the region his
transition spokeswoman Caroline livet
did not answer questions about policy
saying only that he would quote restore
peace through strength around the world
Jonathan there are risks to Trump giving
his full support to the settlers right
it it would bury any hope of a two-state
solution of an independent Palestine and
complicate efforts to resolve the war in
Gaza and Lebanon and it would also put
at risk a potential deal with Saudi
Arabia this there's certainly a
perception that Trump is going to be a
lot easier than Biden but Trump is
essentially a businessman and he
certainly takes that approach to his
negotiations and he's not going to
jeopardize the potential for a full
peace Accord with Saudi Arabia and
Israel which will certainly catapult him
into super stardom in terms of being
able to make peace especially after
reaching the Abraham Accords with other
Gulf Arab states the view from the Saudi
side is markedly different to what
Israel might expect and it's going to
influence Trump's considerations we've
seen in recent days very strong
statements coming out from the Crown
Prince Muhammad bin Salman otherwise
known as NBS has said unequivocally that
a Palestinian state must be established
he's also spoken very critically of
Israel's war in Gaza and these are all
considerations that Trump will take into
account especially seeing as he very
much wants to secure and conclude and
clinch a deal between Israel and Saudi
so all of these factors are going to
Bear heavily upon his appetite and his
ability to accept a lot of the
expectations that the proponents of the
settlements are hoping for so what
you're saying is you Trump has appointed
these very staunchly
pro-israel cabinet members whether it's
secretary of state ambassador to the
United Nations and of course ambassador
to Israel but he necessarily is not
bound by what they believe essentially
Trump is very much his own man and
certainly when I've I've been talking to
people within the settlement movement
they recognize that it's not a sort of
linear straight line where they propos
and Trump will accept it and certainly
he's surrounded by people who are much
more favorable to the settlement
movement but that's that's not the same
as him actually accepting it and even
the proposed ambassador to Israel Mike
hakabe has said it in various interviews
in the past couple of weeks that he does
not have the final say that's up to the
president to determine that and that's
going to be a very big factor and I
think it's something that netan is not
publicly acknowledging but it's going to
be a big factor whether or not it does
actually translate into the way that he
hopes it will how is a two-state
solution viewed within Israel well
certainly inside Israel the idea of a
two-state solution is not one that's
been proposed by anyone within the
political Spectrum even the main stream
Center have realized that there's no
possibility off that given what happened
on October the 7th there's nobody really
to talk to there's nobody really to
trust at the same time the International
Community sees this as very much their
effort to try and secure some kind of
stabilization given they fear that the
violence will spill over an impact upon
the rest of the region but also
increasingly certain European States in
favor of Palestinian State being created
the question is whether or not it will
translate in into anything we've had
decad where there's been efforts to try
and secure a two-state solution it's
still very much a possibility and
Prospect with certainly Western
countries and some Muslim countries the
more Hardline radical Muslim countries
do not accept a Palestinian State the
way it's been framed by Israel but
certainly they are also pushing for
recognition of a sovereign Palestinian
state is there any sense of how a
president Trump in a second term might
reign in Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
netanyahu's Ambitions in the region
whether that's in Gaza or Lebanon given
that Trump might want to be seen as a
peacemaker well certainly Trump has
already made very clear noises and he's
he's made very very sort of explicit
statements about he wants everything
wrapped up by that the war in Gaza the
war in Lebanon and Israel is mindful of
that Trump is very much unpredictable
and it creates a lot more uncertainty as
to the direction that he might travel in
certainly with the Biden Administration
despite all the the noise and rhetoric
in Israel he's provided Rock Solid
support for Israel all being he's had a
lot of tensions within his own Camp be
it from the the more Pro Gaza Democrats
but nonetheless he's he certainly held a
line in terms of his support for Israel
the question that people are asking is
how much support Trump will provide even
though he has got a number of very Pro
settlement and pro-israeli supporters
and also colleagues in his cabinet and
certainly his government nonetheless not
withstanding that he could make a
complete about face and go for very
specific requirements this will put a
lot of pressure or Netanyahu who has not
only sold the idea that he's got a
direct relationship with Trump so it
will be interesting to see what happens
next now I've heard I've heard from
leaders of the S movement that Trump is
open-minded to all kinds of
possibilities he does not have a fixed
position on the region and the conflict
but not withstanding all of that I think
his his one of his main goals is to
ensure that he can go down the history
books as the one who finally sealed a
peace deal between the Saudis and the
Israelis and by extension minimize the
tensions violence and conflict between
Israel and the
Palestinians thanks again to Jonathan
for his reporting and for coming on the
show to speak with us rers world news is
produced by Gail Isa Sharon R Garson
David Spencer Christopher Wall Jasper
and me Jonah green our senior producers
are Tara Oak books and Carmel cmans our
executive producer is Leela dezer sound
design and musical composition by Josh
summer we'll be back on Monday with our
daily headline show make sure to click
follow on your preferred podcast
platform or download the rers app
