today a new poll shows that Americans
worry Trump's economic policies are too
erratic are Senate Democrats raising the
risk of a shutdown and will maid in
America make clothes more expensive we
hear from the Men's Wear
guy it's Thursday March 13th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Sharon R Garson in New Jersey and
I'm Tara Oaks in
Liverpool the train hijacking in
Pakistan is
over and rescued passengers are
receiving Medical Care Pakistani
Security Forces stormed the train that
had been hijacked by separatist
militants and killed all 3
attackers the military says 21 hostages
and four security troops were also
killed during the dayong
[Music]
standoff US president Donald Trump says
he'll impose additional penalties if the
European Union follows through with its
plans to enact counter tariffs on some
us Goods next month speaking from the
Oval Office just hours after 25% duties
on all us steel and aluminum Imports
took effect Trump pushed back on the
idea that his stop start tariffs reflect
inconsistent policy it's not called
inconsistency it's called flexibility
and we now have some data about how
Americans feel about it all our politics
editor Scott Malone is here to unpack
what we've learned from our latest poll
AA zipo poll completed on Wednesday
found that a majority of Americans 57%
believe that President Donald Trump has
been erratic in his economic policies in
his first weeks in office that comes at
a time that Trump has started trade Wars
with some of the nation's largest
trading partners including Canada Mexico
and China and that trade War and the on
again off again nature of it has
contributed to significant sell-offs in
stocks in the United States and other
parts of the world there was a
pronounced partisan breakdown in voters
views with about nine out of 10
Democrats saying they believe Trump's
policy has been erratic compared to
three out of 10 Republicans so that's a
minority View on the Republican side of
the aisle but a significant minority
view it's also important to note that
the poll found that Americans top
concern the thing that they really want
Trump to be tackling is inflation and
the cost of living six out of 10
respondents cited that as their top goal
for him that's substantially more than
cited other Trump priorities and it's
also important to note that seven out of
10 respondents to the poll said they
believe that tariffs would push the cost
of groceries and other everyday items
higher that's particular Ally
significant because it suggests that
members of the public may be concerned
that Trump's actually contributing to a
problem they expect him to
fight Russia has given the US a list of
its demands for a deal to end the war
with Ukraine that's according to two
sources familiar with the matter it's
not clear exactly what Moscow has on the
list or whether there's a willingness to
hold talks with Kev before those demands
are accepted but on the battlefield
Russian President Vladimir Putin visited
the front lines in KK for the first time
since Ukraine attacked the
region appearing in military fatigues
Putin ordered top commanders to defeat
Ukrainian forces as soon as
possible a US judge has extended his
order blocking Federal authorities from
deporting detained Columbia University
student Mahmud Khalil US District Judge
Jesse Ferman wants more time to consider
if the arrest was
unconstitutional in an exclusive
interview with Reuters khalil's wife
saids she was naive to believe he was
safe from being
arrested you can read what she had to
say about his case on rus.com or on our
app by following the link in the Pod
description Senate Democrats say they'll
reject a stop Gap f funding bill that
would fund the government through
September Democratic leader Chuck
Schumer is calling for a one-month
extension to allow time for Congress to
consider individual spending bills the
move raises the chances of a government
shutdown at the end of the week Bo
Erikson is in Washington the argument
that Senate Democrats were telling us
today is that the bill that passed the
house is a partisan bill they said that
incorporated no no Democrat feedback in
it and that it creates a so-called slush
fund for president Donald Trump by
placing fewer requirements on how the
Administration has to spend this money
so they said because Democrats were not
given a voice in this process we are not
going to put forward these kind of
procedural votes in order to move the
funding bill forward they say 4 weeks
would allow both Democrats and
Republican appropriators to get back in
the room and work on a longer term
Government funding package that
incorporates priorities from both
parties now how would it work for
Democrats to actually be able to get
this extension right now the Senate
Democrats they are saying they are going
to hold firm together and that they will
not vote to advance the bill forward to
kind of that final passage that's called
a clure vote I think it's important to
note though that there are some
Democrats already already who seem like
they are willing to support the House
pass spending Bill one specifically I
spoke with Senator John fedman today
he's a moderate Democrat from
Pennsylvania and he told us look there
is some pressure to vote for this bill
especially for Democrats in competitive
States the more moderate ones because if
they do not come up with an alternative
they could look like they are the ones
that are withholding their votes and
potentially causing a shutdown at the
end of this
week Security forces in Argentina clash
with an unlikely mix of retirees and
soccer fans at a protest against
President Javier mle's pension
Cuts police used water cannons and
rubber bullets to disperse the
demonstrators
[Music]
president Trump says his tariffs will
incentivize companies to start making
their goods in the US again but our
reporting has found that with clothing
that's easier said than done we asked
men's fashion writer Derek guy that's
right the Men's Wear Guy online what
made in America really means for
garments well the Federal Trade
Commission has an actual rule for that
and the rule is is that most if not
almost all of the the item has to be
made in the United States so for a
garment that means the fiber is grown in
the United States the fiber is spun into
yarn in the United States and then woven
into Fabric in the United States and
then made into a garment in the United
States so some things may not be worth
ruring whether or not things will resure
back to the US really depends on the
type of item on some level it's hard to
resore certain items like very basic
t-shirts or cheap jeans partly because
as the US has moved towards a
post-industrial economy most of our the
most productive parts of our economy
tends to be in knowledge intensive
services and so the thing about the
Garment industry is that it Still
Remains fairly labor intensive someone
still has to cut and sew the item and
other things just calm be restored right
we can't grow the goats that are
necessary to harvest cashmere so some of
those fibers at least have to be brought
in from parts of China and Mongolia and
while we have you on Wednesday president
Trump took particular interest in vice
president JD Vance's socks I love these
socks what's with
the for listeners who haven't seen them
they were white with green shamrocks in
honor of the visiting Irish leader so
Derek what's your take did he pull it
off I think it would have looked better
with in dark socks I mean I have to
admit I'm not crazy about these kind of
like novelty socks George HW Bush
famously loved fun socks I think it's
easier to pull them off when you're
George H W bush in his older years but
if you had to and certainly if when when
the Irish leader is coming to visit I
think it's you know as much as there's
an occasion to do so that's maybe an
occasion to do so but it would have been
better if he wore darker socks you can
read more on why a major shift to US
Clothing production is unlikely by
following the link to our Reuters
article in the description
[Music]
and for today's recommended read doctors
in Switzerland are writing prescriptions
for more than just meds doctor's orders
now include paid for walks in gardens
and visits to art galleries and museums
it's all part of a pilot project to help
people struggling with their mental
health there's a link to a story in the
Pod description for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app don't forget to
follow us on on your favorite podcast
player we'll be back tomorrow with our
daily headline show
