today why a new Gaza peace deal could be
close at hand a special Council report
finds Donald Trump engaged in criminal
efforts to overturn 2020s election
Trump's Pentagon pick is set to face a
senate grilling and how new oil
sanctions on Russia could offer Trump a
negotiating chip in
[Music]
Ukraine it's Tuesday January 14th this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Jonah Green in New York and I'm Tara
Oaks in
[Music]
Lial President Joe Biden says his
administration is working urgently to
close a deal that would secure the
release of hostages and achieve a
ceasefire in Gaza we have a structure
which free the hostages Hal the fighting
provide security to Israel and allow us
to significantly surge humanitarian
assistance to the Palestinians Egypt the
US and Qatar are mediating the
negotiations and there's another round
of talks in Doha today as they work to
finalize the details our foreign policy
editor Don dery breaks down why this
time a deal may just make it across the
Finish Line we have both Biden's middle
east Envoy Brett mcer and Trump's incom
coming Middle East Envoy Steve witkoff
both working together on this deal it's
a pretty rare for that to happen before
new Administration comes into place and
I think it's fair to say that you the
Biden Administration really has done the
great bulk of work here right they've
been working on this for over over a
year and Trump has given this deadline
you know he says he wants a ceasefire to
be accomplished by the time of his
inauguration or else there's going to be
all hell to pay it seems like it's set
this default deadline for all the
parties and that seems to have been a
helpful thing in terms of giving some
people something to focus on and getting
a deal done it is really important to
bear in mind that a lot has changed in
the region Hamas itself severely
weakened Hezbollah has been effectively
defeated by Israel and Syria the
government of Assad has fallen and Assad
was an ally of the Iranians who
supported both Hamas and Hezbollah so
for what remains of hamas's leadership
there weren't whole lot of options left
anymore a report by US Special counsel
Jack Smith has concluded that
president-elect Donald Trump would have
been convicted of election interference
but his return to the White House made
that
impossible it says Trump engaged in an
unprecedented criminal effort to hold on
to power after losing the 2020 election
on Truth social after the report's
release Donald Trump called Smith a lame
brain prosecutor who is unable to get
his case tried before the
election Los Angeles firefighters are
braced for more high winds today with
concern they could fuel the two huge
wildfires still burning some of the
Winds could reach hurricane
Force the US House of Representatives
has introduced a bill that would pave
the way for the purchase of green land
if passed the make Greenland great again
act will allow Donald Trump to enter
into negotiations with Denmark once
taking office Denmark has repeatedly
said it's not interested in selling
Greenland the US Supreme Court has
turned down a bid by Facebook owner meta
to avoid a multi-billion dollar class
action lawsuit by
advertisers the suit accuses the company
of overcharging them by inflating the
number of people their ads might
reach with the US Dollar on the rise and
a blowout December jobs report last
Friday president-elect Donald Trump is
inheriting a strong economy so where
does that leave his campaign Promises of
aggressive import tariffs strict
immigration curbs and deregulation
Howard Schneider has been looking into
it it's a very different economy than it
was in 2017 there's maybe not a lot of
room for improvement on some of the big
Topline metrics like GDP growth and
unemployment that's not to say there
aren't things he couldn't do to achieve
his campaign goals which are kind of
distributional in nature more
microeconomic you know too many
immigrants in jobs let's get more native
born workers in those jobs too many
goods made abroad let's find a way to
make more things at home just saying
that from a big macro perspective it's
not clear how much room there is to
improve so what happens with the
economic proposals he made for instance
with immigration again it depends on how
aggressive he gets with this are the
immigration rules going to be really
widespread aggressive roundups that
hollow out industries of Labor they
relied on or is it going to be more
targeted people with outstanding arrest
warrants or criminal records sort of
thing that kind of has a high publicity
value ad but doesn't actually result in
that many people leaving the shores of
the US
[Music]
new US sanctions aimed at cutting off
Russia's cash resources for the war in
Ukraine are targeting Russian oil
producers and a fleet of tanker ships
known as the ghost Fleet or Shadow Fleet
those are ships were concealed or
complicated origin and ownership the
move will likely push some of Russia's
main customers like refiners in China
and India to look for new sources of
crude it could also provide Donald Trump
with some leverage on Ukraine Ukraine
our White House reporter Andrea shalal
has been looking into the timing of
these restrictions well you know the
Biden Administration was at pains
throughout this crisis with the Ukraine
war to find a way to thread the needle
to impose pain on Russia without driving
up the price of US oil that they've been
struggling to sort of find a way to to
put pressure on the ghost Fleet and I
think at this point they've less to lose
because they're walking out the door so
we've already seen oil prices go up and
consumers are going to have to bear that
price at a time when inflation has
started to come down but that doesn't
mean that prices are lower so how's
Trump expected to handle these sanctions
we haven't heard from Trump's team
specifically on this but you know we do
know that he likes to maintain a high
level of uncertainty and that he feels
that that gives him advantages in trying
to achieve policy outcomes you know we
also know that he's trying to end the
Ukraine war and end the flow of billions
of dollars of us money to Ukraine so
imposing pain on Russia is not a bad
thing I suppose in terms of his
negotiations with Putin and we do hear
that there will be a conversation
between Trump and Putin early on he can
say look I didn't put these sanctions in
I can lift them if if you do this right
so it's a it's a good negotiating
tool so a handy early negotiating chip
for Trump on Ukraine but a possible
early headache on the cards too as today
marks a senate confirmation hearing for
Pete Heth his pick to run the defense
department the former Fox News host is
likely to face tough questions from
Democrats on his controversial views and
troubling allegations over past Behavior
Phil Stewart covers the Pentagon Pete
Heth is one of the most divisive
nominees for this job in memory he's
made a lot of very uh controversial
remarks including about whether the
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of of Staff
got his job because he's black he's
opposed women in combat and he's really
railed against the diversity equity and
inclusion initiatives that conservatives
have taken aim at and so I think he's
going to find a very kind of of a heated
nomination Hearing in a way that's not
really seen so much at the Senate armed
services committee and what about the
allegations against him some of those
allegations include a
2017 allegation of sexual assault which
did not result in charges and which heg
Seth um strongly denies but there are
going to be questions about whether
there might have been other allegations
of sexual assault against him we reached
out repeatedly to to Mr heg and to the
Trump transition folks for comments and
we have not got gotten a response Pete
Heath has also been accused of excessive
drinking on the job at Fox and also in
his work after leaving the military at
veterans organizations he's accused of
mismanaging funds at those veteran
organizations and so there are questions
among lawmakers about whether he has the
ability to manage a department with over
$800 billion dollar in annual budgets
what is his Acumen to lead a vast
organization given that for many makers
they're seeing more of a of a bomb
thrower more of aure than a
[Music]
leader and for today's recommended read
record-breaking Coastal water
temperatures in China they're up for the
second year in a row in 2024 the hottest
year since records began to over 70Â° F
there's a link to the story in the
description for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app don't forget to
follow us on your favorite podcast
player we'll be back tomorrow with our
daily headline show
