today the latest from the ground in
Saudi Arabia as talks begin between
Russia and the US Ukraine is top of the
agenda but Europe feels sidelined we
look at what security guarantees they
can offer to be part of any peace deal
and a Delta plane flips upside down in
Toronto leaving several
injured it's Tuesday February 18th this
is roor world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tor Oaks in London and I'm
Christopher wal Jesper in
Chicago us and Russian officials are
meeting in Riad for the most significant
talks to date between the two former
Cold War foes on ending moscow's war in
Ukraine the conversation could pave the
way for a summit between US president
Donald Trump and his Russian counterpart
vad Putin Hera pamuk is on the ground in
Riyad with the latest please note she
spoke to us from the busy Press Room at
the venue we understand from the US side
that so far they want this largely to be
focused on how to end the Ukraine war
that was one of the biggest Promises of
US president Donald Trump throughout the
campaign from the Russian side we
understand they're looking at this a
little bit more broadly we're hearing
them describe these talks as a way to
reset the wider American Russian
relationship and perhaps restore some
trust between the two Cold War foes
what's the atmosphere like there it's
it's a rare rainy day in rad right yes
it is a rare rainy day journalists on
both sides were very enthusiastic to get
into the room fast and first so that
everybody can get the best shot we have
seen the principals sitting across from
each other in an ornate room uh on a
table uh at the top of the table the
American traveling press shouted
questions we asked if Washington was
sidelining Ukraine and we've also asked
what what kind of concessions Washington
was going to ask of Moscow neither of
those questions were answered they
largely they ignored our questions and
sat there with a rather stoic facei do
you have any indication at this point
how long you'll be waiting for any sort
of announcement any sort of readout from
talks we understand that these talks
will probably take the entire day
there's been reporting that the
Americans want ukrainians to to sign a
piece of paper promising some of their
minerals and the Russians want to as I
said make it a broader discussion there
are issues between Moscow and Washington
about how their embassies operate in
these respective capitals I understand
Russians are Keen to tackle that issue
so there is a lot on the agenda and that
is going to take a full day to iron out
all of those this is almost a precursor
this is an opportunity to test out if
there could be further talks between
Americans and the Russians and this is a
test to see if there could be a bigger
Summit between President Donald Trump
and Russian President Vladimir
Putin while the US and Russia talk
Ukraine it's fair to say European
leaders have been a little sidelined
they are trying to ease their way back
into the conversation and several have
met for an emergency meeting on Ukraine
in Paris British prime minister Kier
starmer at stake is not just the future
of Ukraine it is an
existential question for Europe as a
whole speaking after the talks but we
Europeans will have to do more our
European Affairs editor Andrew Gray in
Brussels has been looking into what
European leaders can offer the
negotiations so we're starting to see
leaders talk a bit more about the
possibility of some kind of military
force to enforce the peace in Ukraine
and we're seeing some leaders who are
saying they would be willing to putop
boots on the ground the British prime
minister Kier starmer is one of those
France has indicated it would be open to
that idea others saying too early or we
can't do it so the German Chancellor
Olaf Schultz saying far too early
talking about this and polish prime
minister Donald Tusk saying Poland has
no plans to do this so you can see
already some countries much more
hesitant about this idea than others do
we know how the Kremlin might view uh
European
troops in Ukraine even in a peacekeeping
role right that's a big question we
don't know for sure we certainly know
from from some of their statements in
the past that obviously they regard NATO
as a hostile Force the question becomes
then would they accept troops from NATO
Nations if they were not under a NATO
umbrella if you like so we'll have to
see whether that is something that could
be negotiated in how it would work as
you mentioned Kier starmer said that in
the end there needs to be a US security
component to this but what might that
look like there are some capabilities
that only the Americans have
intelligence gathering military
transport that kind of thing but there
would also be a political element what
the Europeans would want is some kind of
assurance that if they ended up under
attack that the Americans somehow would
have their backs would come to their aid
because that provides then an addition
an additional deterrent if you like and
further deter the Russians because they
would know if they were attacking
European forces in a sense it would also
be bringing America into the
[Music]
conflict we just have a crash on Runway
here a Roger yeah flights have resumed
at Canada's Toronto Pearson Airport
after a Delta Airlines Regional flight
flipped upside down while landing around
the aircraft there yeah we've got it the
aircrafts upside down and burning
passenger Pete Carlson told CBC news
about being on board during the incident
all of a sudden everything just kind of
went sideways and then next say I know
is kind of a a blink and I'm upside down
still strapped in officials say three
people were critically injured along
with 15 others who were taken to
hospital for varying injuries seemed
like they were there to make sure we
helped each other and you know moved out
of Harm's Way Toronto pe's fire chief
Todd Aken says they'll be reviewing the
incident but haven't yet determined a
cause this is an active investigation
it's very early on it's really important
that we do not speculate weather
conditions at the time of the crash
indicated gusting cross winds and
blowing snow according to a flight
tracking website Toronto received more
than 8 in of snowfall in the days before
the
[Music]
crash a US judge says she hopes to rule
by today in a lawsuit aiming to block
Elon musk's Doge team from accessing
information systems at Major government
agencies US District Judge Tanya chuin
in Washington DC heard arguments on
Monday even though federal courts were
closed for the President's Day holiday
the emergency request was made by 13
Democratic State Attorneys General they
argued their states may not be able to
carry out educational or other programs
due to the Department of government
efficiency's efforts to dismantle
initiatives and direct Mass
firings doctors have changed treatment
for Pope Francis respiratory tract
infection to tackle a complex clinical
situation the Vatican says the
88-year-old pontiff has been suffering
from the infection for over a week and
was admitted to Rome's jamell Hospital
on
Friday a bus crash in Bolivia has killed
at least 31 people according to local
police a police officer says the driver
of the bus likely lost control of the
vehicle causing it to drop over a 2,000
ft precipice in the southwestern
Municipality of
yala Australia's Central Bank has cut
rates for the first time in more than
four years The Reserve Bank of Australia
cut the cash rate by a quarter point to
4.1% it's the first reduction since
November 2020 when the pandemic saw rate
slash to an all-time low of
0.1% the RBA says it's still too early
to declare victory over inflation and
was cautious about the prospects of
further easing the rate cut will provide
some relief to borrowers and comes as
good news for prime minister Anthony
alberes who's facing a tough election to
be held no later than May 17th and if
you have a hankering after Central Bank
content check out our most recent
episode of Reuters con World podcast
it's all about Central Bank decoupling
and is available wherever you get your
[Music]
podcasts and for today's recommended
read a special report about how a
russian-linked propaganda campaign has
been pushing to undercut German support
for Ukraine it details how a traveling
photo exhibit in Germany about the
suffering of children in the Russia
Ukraine war is actually connected to
Moscow you can read more by following
the link in the podcast description and
if you want to learn more about the
upcoming German elections check out our
special episode that dropped over the
weekend for more on any of the stories
from today check out reuters.com or the
reuter app don't forget to follow us on
your favorite podcast player and we'll
be back tomorrow with our daily headline
show
