today as investigators try to piece
together the events leading up to the
fatal crash over Washington DC president
Trump takes aim at the Federal Aviation
Administration why the European Central
Bank keeps cutting rates while the FED
holds steady chaotic scenes in the
latest transfer of hostages from Gaza
and farmers in Canada brace for us
tariffs it's Friday January AR 31st this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Christopher wal Jasper in Chicago
and I'm Tara Oaks in
[Music]
Liverpool investigators have recovered
the so-called black boxes from an
American Airlines jet carrying 60
passengers and four crew members which
collided with an army Blackhawk
helicopter and crashed into the pomac
river the cause of the crash is still
under investigation president Donald
Trump was quick to blame his
predecessors and diversity initiatives
at the Federal Aviation
Administration a week before I entered
office they put a big push to put uh
diversity into the faa's program now
Trump has no evidence to back his claim
which was quickly denounced by his
political opponents officials say there
were no survivors among the 64 people on
the jet or the three soldiers on the
helicopter which was on a training
flight One controller rather than two
was handling local plane and helicopter
traffic on Wednesday night at the
airport a situation deemed not normal
but considered adequate for lower
volumes of traffic according to a person
briefed on the matter Joe Brock's been
digging into what happened we may not
have a complete picture for weeks or
even months what we do know is that the
air traffic controller asked the pilot
of the military Blackhawk helicopter to
fly behind the passenger jet in the
seconds before the
crash that obviously didn't
[Music]
happen but we don't yet know why the
black boxes and the wreckage of the
aircraft will provide clues in
investigators will show' be studying the
air traffic tapes and interviewing the
controllers and the witnesses
and they'll also scrutinize the Army
safety procedures for the helicopter how
common are close calls and crashes like
this over the nation's capital yeah this
airport is actually unique in many ways
and there have been several close calls
we spoke to several pilots who explain
the unique challenges at the airport
because they have to navigate a very
narrow flight path to avoid restricted
airspace around the White House and the
Pentagon One Pilot described to us it to
us as very very tight and also
commercial planes and military aircraft
use different radio frequencies so that
provides a communication issue in an
area where they um test military
[Music]
aircraft cash Patel the president's
nominee for FBI director told Senators
on Thursday he would protect FBI
employees against political retribution
that's even as the Trump Administration
has begun to fire or sideline Justice
Department officials who were involved
in investigations into the president now
Patel's been amongst the most vocal
critics of those investigations
depicting them as works of a quote deep
State though he did appear to break with
Trump on his sweeping pardons for the
January 6th riers I do not agree with
the commutation of any sentence of any
individual who committed violence
against law
enforcement a test the exchange with
Senators at Tulsi gabbard's confirmation
hearing too Trump's pick for Director of
National Intelligence faced harsh
criticism for her past defense of EX NSA
contractor Edward Snowden and comments
seen as pro- Russia was he a traitor the
time when he took America's Secrets
released them in public and then ran to
China and became a Russian citizen
Senator I'm focused on the future and
how we can prevent something like this
from happening again
former German Chancellor Angela Merkel
has criticized Friedrich meds her
successor as leader of a country's
conservatives for pushing through a bill
on tighter immigration control with the
help of the far
right in Europe the cuts keep coming the
European Central Bank has cut interest
rates again the time since June bash
kurani is our chief ECB correspondent at
first glance you might say wow ecb's
cutting rates uh it's great for the
European consumer and mortgage holder
but the underlying reasons for this
Divergence with the Federal Reserve is
is quite Grim European economy is
stagnating industry has been in a 2-year
recession unemployment is inching up and
China's previously insatable appetite
for European Goods um seems to be waning
enter Donald Trump and his tariff
threats into all this and the picture
gets worse Europe relies on that trade
for much of its growth and has a massive
current account
Surplus chaos during Thursday's T
hostage
Handover as Hamas freed three Israeli
and five Thai hostages in Gaza Israeli
female hostage alel houd looking
fearful struggling to walk through the
surging crowds in Gaza as armed
militants handed her over to the Red
Cross in response Israel delayed the
return of 110 Palestinians but later the
release was back
on the prisoners met by cheering crowds
in the West Bank and Gaza after Israel
received assurances from mediators that
future swaps would be run safely
our Israel and Palestinian territories
bureau chief James McKenzie is here to
tell us more there were really
tumultuous scenes crowds pressing in the
the Hamas guards had a really a great
deal of difficulty in keeping the crowds
back I mean we've seen on every occasion
the Handover to the Red Cross happens
you know in a public place basically and
it's always a bit of a sort of an
occasion for Hamas to give a bit of a
dis display of strength meant to
demonstrate that they're still there
after this 15-month war and that's
always angered the Israelis but this
particular one was the most striking
sort of scenes that that we that we've
had so far so in one sense this is the
kind of one of the hiccups that we're
going to see it remains to be seen
whether they will constitute uh the kind
of thing that actually derails the
process but it was certainly something
that that caused a lot of anger in
Israel yesterday
president Trump's promise of sweeping
tariffs on Canada and Mexico starting
February 1st are yet to manifest but
that doesn't mean businesses aren't
bracing for the impact of those extra
fees one sector that's extremely
vulnerable to these duties is food
especially food grown in Canada before
making its way to us grocery stores Ed
White covers Canadian agriculture from
Winnipeg last week I was at a big farm
show and I ran into a farmer I know his
name is Chuck FY from Starbuck Manitoba
and he like a lot of farmers focus on
the same thing which is it's really hard
to prepare for what seems like a big
threat when you don't know how much of
that threat will be carried out it's
probably going to reduce the amount of
canola we sell to the US not just canola
but canola oil and canola meal that we
shipped down to California for Dairy
Producers and just how much food product
moves across the US Canada Border what
what kind of stuff are we talking about
well you know there are so many
different things and no one ever thinks
about it because the two parts of the a
economy are pretty much intertwined but
say things like quck roats that's mostly
Canadian oats because Americans don't
grow a lot of oats for grain anymore
same with Cheerios those are made from
Canadian oats so that's just a very
basic product there are things like
piglets which there are millions here in
the middle of Canada that are born on
Canadian farms and then at a few weeks
old they're shipped down to Iowa and
Minnesota where they're they're fed out
and then they become meat in the United
States and some of it gets shipped back
to Canada it it kind of goes back and
forth and there's a lot of beef that
goes both ways so any kind of a tariff
barrier becomes a real factual when that
hasn't normally been one in the business
how has uh Canada responded to the
threat of tariffs there's everything
from the threat of dollar for dooll
retaliatory tariffs at export tariffs to
Canadian Oil and Gas going to the US
there has been a lot of talk of trying
to pafy the concerns of the Trump
Administration no one really quite knows
what is going to happen in the next
weeks and
[Music]
months and for today's recommended read
how people in Japan are coming up with
creative ways to fight soaring food
prices
learning how to grow vegetables at home
after the cost of Staples like cabbage
of tripled there's a link to the story
in the pop description for more on any
of the stories from today then check out
reuters.com or the Reuters app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back on Monday
with our daily headline show
