I feel like the voice of the younger
generation in this election is so
critical they tried to shoot him and he
comes up ready to fight she's looking to
implement a more inclusive culture in
America I I really feel he will make
America great again all those voices can
only mean one thing it's election
day after a tumultuous campaign unlike
any other the United States is in the
process of choosing its next president
tens of millions have already cast their
ballots and as polls open fully across
the US that choice is on a knife edge
and tonight or in the days to come we'll
know which vision of America prevailed
in this bitterly divided political
moment but what kind of country will Joe
Biden's successor inherit and how long
will those election results take
really it's Tuesday November 5th this is
reuter's world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm tar Oaks in Washington DC and I'm
Jonah Green in New
[Music]
York both Donald Trump and Carla Harris
sprinted across swing states in the last
frantic day of the campaign we're ready
to get out the vote
we're ready to
win we are going to fire Cala and we are
going to save America and while the
candidates made their last Stitch
appeals to voters a midnight split in
the Northeast I think New Hampshire's a
purple State and I think it's very
divided and I think even the six of us
might be divided and anarie pintle was
right a tie in dixville Notch the town
six registered voters cast the first
election day votes at midnight in a
tradition which goes back 60 years and
this year saw three votes cast for
Harris and three for
Trump so like the inhabitants of
dixville Notch you've cast your vote
you're kicking back and following the
election on of course reuters.com and
the Reuters app but it might be a bit of
a wait results could take a few days
political reporter Joseph ax is here to
fill us in on what to expect once polls
close
so Joey last time we were primed to
expect an election day red Mirage right
because Republicans voted the day of and
Democrats tended to vote more by mail or
early is that still the case or have
voting patterns changed since the
pandemic so it's hard to say on a
national level because obviously every
state has its own laws on how it handles
and counts ballots and so if you take
Pennsylvania election officials are
barred from touching any maale ballots
until the day of the election and so as
the polls close that evening
Pennsylvania will start reporting votes
and the in-person election day results
which are likely to favor Trump will
come in much more quickly than the mail
ballots which just take a lot longer to
process and so it's going to look as
though Trump's winning at least
initially but then as those ballots get
counted from the mail they're likely to
favor Harris and she's she's probably
going to cut into that Gap but
Republicans are voting early and by mail
much more this year right so so how
should we read that one of the things
that's been hard to figure out is
whether all of those Republican voters
that are going early in person are those
voters that would have voted anyway on
Election Day and have simply chosen to
vote earlier or does the higher number
of Republican voters who are voting
early does that reflect more enthusiasm
and a bigger turnout among Republican
voters so we've established Pennsylvania
might be a bit of a slog what about the
other Battle Ground States so North
Carolina Arizona Georgia those are all
states that allow the election officials
to process the mail ballots more quickly
there states where you may see uh Harris
with an early lead because those States
at least in the initial hours tend to be
reporting mailin ballots early ballots
that are likely to favor Democrats and
it's only after that that you may see a
red shift where Trump may start to cut
into those leads if the polls are way
off and it's not as close as they
suggest then it's likely we'll know the
results sooner than later right but what
if it is as close as they suggest in
2020 the election was called for Biden
on Saturday after election day what
people don't remember necessarily is
there were still a number of Swing
states that hadn't been called at that
point and so if we get into a situation
this year where it really is coming down
to one of those States you could be in
for a much longer wait than
2020 concerns about potential political
violence have prompted officials across
the country to bolster security during
and after election day here's
Philadelphia district attorney Larry ker
with a warning to wouldbe troublemakers
clear anybody who thinks it's time to
play
militia F around and find out we do have
the Cuffs we do have the jail cells we
do have the Philly juries here in DC the
fortifications are hard to miss even a
McDonald's has been boarded up with
wooden Shields as the city gears up for
possible turmoil
I've just walked basically the entire
perimeter of about as close as you can
get to the White House and the whole
thing is ringed with these metal fences
which have been set up there's also
construction already for the inaugural
parade for next year
2025 but right now a lot of the tourists
around me are struggling to get their
iconic picture of the White House
through all the gates and fences set up
in front of them
and it's not just heightened security
souring the mood for many Americans
Paul's find that voters believe the US
is on the wrong
track take the economy for example
despite its growth Biden could go down
in history as presiding over the best
economy that everyone hated an overseas
conflicts have overshadowed his
presidency what kind of country will the
next president
inherit Suzanne golden is our Global
Enterprise editor Suzanne I want to
start with something that President
Trump likes to repeat often on the
campaign Trail Now We're a nation in
Decline we are a failing Nation we are
so is he right lost no I mean if you
were to look at the economy America's
economy is Envy of the industrialized
world the US has emerged from covid with
really strong job growth wage increases
of course the problem for many Americans
is that those increases were offset by
huge spikes when we came out of the
pandemic in things like groceries rent
insurance and so that's contributed to
the sort of discontent many are feeling
and that Trump has tapped into okay so
that's what's going well but what crises
might fall into the lap of Biden's
successor every president is guaranteed
to face events that change the course of
their time time in the white house for
Biden especially that was when the
Supreme Court overturned the right to
abortion and it was also foreign policy
in terms of immigration yes we saw
record levels of illegal migration in
20122 and in 2023 but since June this
year that situation has turned around I
mean that is one thing that's guaranteed
in the White House is that there will be
some kind of surprise that puts a
presidency in different direction than
perhaps the elected leader anticipated
and if you're interested in the economic
Legacy of Biden then we've got a whole
econ World podcast on just that bomic
we'll put a link in today's pod
description and later on today we'll
have a new episode out all about
interest rates just in case you want a
bit of a break from the
election and now everyone breathe
or go for a walk or step away from
social media just for a little while
whatever it takes to reduce election
stress because we found it's significant
in recent days Reuters correspondents
have spoken to more than 50 voters
across the seven competitive states that
will determine the next president
they've encountered an electorate on
edge
some of them are coping so lots of sleep
and uh quiet time out in nature working
out uh vigorous working out long walks
uh meditation that's Dr Curtis Jasper a
psychologist in Atlanta Georgia James
Lang a Las Vegas resident agrees on the
meditation front meditation and prayer
and you know breathing and the things at
this class you know will help me kind of
just calm down and go into the pools and
make my selections speaking to us from a
yoga class but in Scottsdale Arizona
lift driver Jillian Marshall had some
different advice what what I've been
doing is I've been um um unfollowing a
lot of people on Twitter a lot of
political accounts I do have children
and I have a cat and I will be watching
with my Xanax and my bottle of San Blanc
[Music]
before we leave you on this election day
Penny Candy nickel cigars dime stores
and 25-cent movie tickets we look at
prices and inflation in the US how
debates about both often seem Frozen in
time and how surging inflation over the
last 3 years to levels not seen since
the early 1980s is a ballot box issue
that's our recommended read for today
and there's a link to the graphic and
the story in the pod description for
more on any of the stories from today
check out reuters.com or the Reuters app
to never miss an episode subscribe on
your favorite podcast player we'll be
back tomorrow with the latest on the
election in our daily headline show
