today South Korea's impeached president
is arrested Trump's advisers concede
that a Ukraine peace deal could be
months away while aid for Los Angeles
Wildfire recovery becomes a political
fight in the house plus self-proclaimed
Tik Tok refugees are fleeing to another
Chinese app as a US ban
approaches it's Wednesday January 15th
this is roter world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tor Oaks in London and I'm
Christopher walljasper in
Chicago advises to President elect
Donald Trump now concede that the
Ukraine war will take months or even
longer to resolve in a sharp reality
check on his biggest foreign policy
promise two Trump Associates who've
discussed a war in Ukraine with the
president elect described the day one
promises as a combination of campaign
Bluster and a lack of appreciation of
how long it will take to tackle the
intractable conflict with the new
Administration over the past several
weeks our intensive efforts have brought
us to the brink of full and final
agreement US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin on a possible Gaza ceasefire and
hostage release deal close but not over
the finish line yet us and Egyptian
negotiators say their focus is on the
coming hours and hammering out the final
details after Marathon talks in
Qatar in South Africa authorities have
pulled at least 60 bodies from the shaft
of a shuttered gold mine more than 100
survivors have been forced out and
arrested and an unknown number of men
are still feared trapped more than a
mile underground following a Crackdown
on illegal
mining President Joe Biden will relax
tax sanctions targeting longtime foe
Cuba days before Donald Trump takes
office Biden is reversing several
Hardline restrictions put in place by
Trump and expects the broad set of steps
to lead to the release of political
prisoners in
Havana the Securities and Exchange
Commission is suing Elon Musk for
failing to properly disclose his
ownership of X musk has suggested the
disclosure delay was a mistake
and Kate Britain's Princess of Wales
says she is relieved to be in remission
following her cancer treatment her
comments coming after a visit to the
London Hospital where she underwent
months of Medical
[Music]
Care investors are treading water as
they wait for a raft of numbers due out
today including us Consumer Price data
that could potentially shift the
monetary policy Outlook look plus Q4
results from some of the top Banks
investors are eyeing City and JP Morgan
earnings to see if they will deliver on
sky high expectations and you can see
the results and the market reaction on
reuters.com and the Reuters
app the US Supreme Court could announce
as soon as today how it might rule on
the US Tik Tok ban Tik Tok users say
they're bracing for the worst and
looking for alternatives in fact
thousands of them have joined another
Chinese app called redn okay because I'm
one of the Tik Tok refugees and I'm us
users like Crystal from Massachusetts
who recently posted this on redn um if
we do anything wrong just let us know
because we're used to making videos
where uh we dance and do stupid stuff
our Tech reporter Crystal who in New
York has been looking into red note and
other apps that have seen a boost from
the impending Tik Tok band ret node has
a pretty Vibrant Community and in the
past days I think to much surprise to
REO the company itself what we heard is
over
700,000 new users joined the platform
and a lot of them call them the Tik Tok
refugees and it was a very interesting
phenomenon to see American users joining
into another Chinese app to avoid a ban
on the Chinese app Tik Tok and now we're
seeing media reports that a possible
option for keeping Tik Tok alive in the
US would be a purchase potentially by
Elon Musk what do we know about that
Prospect to be fair Trump and Elon Musk
team haven't said a word on this and
when we reached out to Tik Tok for
comment they told us they cannot be
commenting on pure fiction and the
Chinese government did not reply for any
requests for comments what has been
reported is that there internal
deliberations between the Chinese
government um so if indeed there is a
loosening up of that line that ch
Chinese government is holding that
they're open for a conversation and
effectively put Tik Tock in a for sale
sign as this reports asserted there will
be tons of Interest We Believe from the
US investors and the business side Tik
Tok plans to keep paying its us
employees past the January 19th deadline
even if the Supreme Court does not
overturn the law that would force its
sale or ban that's according to an
internal memo reviewed by Reuters
impeached South Korean president Yun
sakol has been arrested and questioned
by authorities over his failed attempts
to impose martial law in December Yun
says he's only cooperating with what he
calls an illegal probe to avoid unsavory
Bloodshed Jen Park is on the ground and
centers this from South Korea's
corruption investigation office the
arrest today was you know live broadcast
from like before done and hundreds of
thousands of people were watching live
fees on YouTube finally Yun with a
prosecutor got in his car and departed
his residence and came to this
corruption investigation office where
intense questioning is expected as soon
as there was a news that you might be
shortly arrested the supporters were
very
upset they teared up and some people are
so upset and angry and they slapped the
police with their Korean and American
flag poles it's very very classic to see
uh un supporters holding South Korean
and American flag together because they
are huge fans of trump US president
elect and they hope that Trump is going
to save Yun or support
Yun it's a busy week for president elect
Donald Trump's cabinet
[Music]
appointees his pick to lead the Pentagon
came under Fierce grilling during his
confirmation hearing on Tuesday one of
your colleagues said that you got drunk
at an event at a bar en chanted kill all
Muslims another Democrats like Senator
Tim Kaine voiced concern about Pete
heth's inexperience and alleged
drunkenness the former Fox News host
called those allegations a coordinated
smear campaign and why do they want to
destroy me because I'm a change agent
and a threat to them because Donald
Trump was willing to choose me to
empower me he has vowed to abstain from
alcohol if confirmed hex largely
weathered the 4-Hour hearing without
making any major Gaff that would have
alienated Republicans and even one
critical backing from Republican senator
Joanie Ernst who holds sway in her party
all confirmation hearings are set for
today including Attorney General
Secretary of State and Homeland Security
secretary meanwhile over in the house a
fight over California wildfire disaster
Aid is breaking out Republican speaker
Mike Johnson told reporters on Monday
that there should be conditions placed
on Aid claiming that officials in the
Democrat L state mismanaged water
resources and forests house Democrats
like represent ative tedl pushed back on
Tuesday when mother nature strikes she
doesn't go hey are you a Democrat or
Republican because if you're a Democrat
I'm going to take your home and burn it
and if you're Republican I'm not that's
not what happened our reporter David
Morgan is following the story in
Washington there are a couple of things
that seem to be going on one is that
President Trump has voiced a partisan
political message about California but
also there is a climate in Congress
these days
that frowns on spending of any kind
Hardline Republicans don't want to spend
that much money on things so there are
some elements to this that seem to delve
into partisan politics that there were
other elements that seem to be wholly
focused on fiscal matters it's important
to realize that FEMA for the moment says
that it has enough money to deal with
the need that it faces in the Los
Angeles area
and it's also important to understand
that if aid for California goes through
the usual Appropriations channels it
means that the Senate will need 60 votes
to pass it that means that Republicans
will need help from Democrats and
therefore Democrats will be involved in
negotiating with what the final package
looks like
[Music]
and for today's recommended read a
special report which digs into Warren
Buffett's Burkshire Hathaway A Ro's
analysis shows the company operates the
dirtiest set of coal fired power plants
in the US and that despite big
investments in renewable energy has
resisted efforts by Regulators to make
its coal plants cleaner a link to a
special report is in the Pod description
for more on any of the stories from
today's show check out reuters.com or
the Reuters app
don't forget to follow us on your
favorite podcast player we'll be back
tomorrow with our daily headline show
