this week we saw a huge leap in AI
technology it's caught the tech Titans
in the US by surprise and freaked out
investors since it threatens the
underpinnings of the entire
economy deep seek the chinese-owned AI
company says it's made huge strides with
far fewer resources than its Western
competitors on this weekend episode of
rers world news our Tech correspondents
tell us how this happened and what
happens next I'm your host Jonah
[Music]
green I'm joined now by Tech
correspondents Jeffrey daston and Anna
Tong hello you two thanks for joining me
today thanks for having us thank you who
is deep seek and how did they do this
deep seek came out of a hedge fund
actually in China was a quantitative
hedge fund focused on using mathematical
algorithms for trading as opposed to
human analysis and it had been around
since
2015 when its founder someone named
Leong one fun said to his followers on
China's WeChat that he was going to
focus on building AGI so AGI refs to
artificial general intelligence it's the
stated goal of the major usai providers
like openai and anthropic and so so what
what was really really interesting about
this announcement in April 2023 that
Leong would create this AGI Focus
company we now know as deep seek is that
he hadn't come from the major Tech
players in China he hadn't come from
Alibaba or bite dance he was at an elite
University when he was 17 he majored in
electronics communication engineering
but he had come from obscurity relative
to for instance the Jack Moss of the
world and here now fast forward almost
two years later he with deep seek has
completely rocked the world of AI and
Global markets at the same time what's
crazy is kind of like the Whiplash that
we're experiencing in the economy right
now just two weeks ago Sam mman Larry
Ellison and Moshi son stood up with
President Trump and said they were going
to invest up to $500 billion into
infrastructure that was essentially only
for open Ai and then just a week after
that deep seek released its models which
then made the market and business people
think that you know you didn't really
need to have a huge investment in AI
infrastructure and that caused Nvidia to
lose hundreds of billions of dollars in
market value so I think that just like
the amount of whiplash that the market
is experiencing that AI investors are
experiencing right now is is crazy
because it's gone from like you know we
need $500 billion of investment to maybe
we don't need anything at all to now a
lot of uncertainty around what's going
to happen and I think a lot of investors
right now are kind of looking around to
try to figure out what they should do if
they should pull back from AI
Investments or if they should double
down because you deep seek means that AI
will be more freely available to
everyone so I don't think anyone knows
what's going to happen and so how are
the other AI companies responding to all
this the response of the USA companies
was interesting because they
acknowledged how powerful deep seeks
model was and how cost effective while
at the same time downplaying the
concerns that that one might have from
this so to give an example the CEO of
anthropic one of the top AI companies
backed by Google backed by Amazon his
name is jario amod and he published A
Very Long blog post basically saying
that what the US has to do and we can
talk about this later is just keep it
strategy with export controls of chips
and preventing them from getting to
China e he thinks they're working
actually but the the subtext to all this
what was actual response to deep seek
was that we were according to mod day at
this we're at this interesting crossover
point where it's actually possible with
not a ton of money to produce really
high quality results and that that would
change and you actually will need a ton
of money and high-end chips going
forward so he was he was basically
saying that that deep seek had done
something very impressive engineering
wise and it had done clever things with
various AI research techniques to very
efficiently make a model that could do
impressive reasoning and that was almost
to be expected based on the way this
technology was progressing the cost
savings we've seen month after month and
he was kind of comparing deep seeks
models to his own anthropics own models
from months prior and saying this is
exactly what we would expect to happen
we would expect it to be done so well
and so cheaply and we're at this
crossover point where that's possible
now but if you fast forward some number
of months some number of years you
actually will need huge numbers of
high-end chips and deep seek won't be
able to keep up so he he actually
presented this this image of Cal and
certainty of course that's doing what it
is and and really what's surprised him
was just that it had come from China not
not that someone had produced results
like deep seeks at all so H I think that
is indicative of maybe how the US
company's working confident but still
concerned from a geopolitical risk
standpoint yeah that was kind of the
heart of the panic this week right if if
a company like this can do so much with
so little then that kind of overturns
all of our assumptions about how
valuable a company like Nvidia is or how
much you need to invest in a company
like open AI but what you're saying is
that maybe that's not the case going for
forward we saw nvidia's stock drop 177%
at one point on Monday and certainly the
question that people were asking was do
we need to spend so much money on
nvidia's highest send chips if this
company in China without access to them
was able to reproduce these impressive
results without those chips and
obviously Nvidia stock has paired some
of those losses now and I think it is an
open question going back again to what
some of the usai leaders are saying this
is a temporary moment in time it's it's
the case that going forward to keep
scaling up these these models and to
keep getting better more intelligent
results that get us to this future that
the Deep seek itself claims it once
which is artificial general intelligence
really human equal intelligence M then
you will need still more powerful inid
chips and L of them tens of billions of
dollars if not a hundred billion dollars
or more and that actually suggests that
Nvidia still has a good business going
forward and Anna you've been talking to
a lot of sources about this what are
investors thinking right now for sure
like you know MSA Yoshi son from
SoftBank is is certainly doubling down
on open AI so he's not only investing in
Stargate which is the joint venture
that's going to be building data centers
and purchasing chips but he's also
making an up to $40 billion investment
into open AI for-profit company which
changes on whether an open AI can
convert from a nonprofit to a for-profit
company so you know there's certainly
investors like him that are really
really doubling down on the other hand
we're hearing also kind of Rumblings
from investors that maybe think that
they are Overexposed in Ai and want to
dialate back so I think we're we're
hearing both right now have you heard if
any of the American companies are
changing course at all on on their
strategies or it does it seem like what
the anthropic CEO is saying that they're
just staying the course and using this
as a way to get people to want to spend
even more on on American AI to to stay
ahead next week there is going to be a
slew of tech earnings and there were
Tech earnings this this week too what
we're hearing so far is that um
companies are staying the course M so in
earnings Mark Zuckerberg said doubled
down and said they are going to continue
investing in AI infrastructure same with
Microsoft so I think that thus far
companies are at least publicly saying
that they are excited about deep seek
and that means that there's going to be
more AI for everyone because right now
getting AI out into the world into the
hands of consumers has been extremely
limited by the number of gpus that are
available and so there's a lot of
excitement now that with the efficiency
gains that deep seek has proved that
there will be more AI available for
everyone and can you explain what gpus
are a GPU is a computer chip so that
specializes in running Ai and also
training AI models MH and it stands for
a graphics Processing Unit because
Nvidia created this chip actually for
video games and bunch of AI researchers
realized more than a decade ago that the
way it processed computations and parall
well different from how computer
processing units tpus did it was
actually perfect for the kind of AI that
the world and and those scientists are
now developing this news comes at a very
interesting time the US is trying to ban
Tik Tock a Chinese owned company and
that's been put on hold by President
Trump despite years of lawmakers warning
that the app is a threat to National
Security and that China is using it to
corrupt the minds of our young people
and now we have China potentially
dominating the AI space right so there
have been reports of yan fun the Deep
seek founder meeting with senior
government officials in in China and
clearly his presence there is an
indication that China as as it has said
for years understands the huge economic
value of AI and what's interesting if
you talk to or hear from the American AI
Founders it's not that they don't want
China to have the benefits of AI they
they want those to be distributed across
the world it's just that there is
concern in the United States about the
government model of China being in the
driver's seat as opposed to the
Democratic model in the US so there's
this this idea however alarmist as it
might be that if the US isn't the first
to get to Ai and in particular to get to
this artificial general intelligence
this way more powerful type of
technology that we don't have yet then
there could be great benefits to China's
military there could be a reshaping of
the geopolitical world order that sort
of thing so there's this belief that the
US has to get there first and this is
the first real challenge to the
likelihood of that and so I think that's
why people at least in government
circles and National Security circles in
the US are alarmed and so what does this
mean for the race to dominate AI what
does the US do next year what we're
starting to see are calls for still more
export controls on chips which there
already are a lot but the idea is is to
maybe prevent some of those lower-end
types of Nvidia chips from getting to
China the ones that are already there
but preventing further sales of them
because clearly the Deep seek model
shows that even some of those can be
impactful for Building AI in China and I
think Beyond export controls there still
is a lot of head scratching what's the
defensive what's the offensive move for
the US I think as Anna mentioned having
Trump present or lead into this
announcement of this hundred billion do
up to $500 billion do Stargate
announcement involving data centers for
open aai suggests that there's this
desire aside from just preventing
China's access to chips there's this
desire to let the US industry run freely
so I think the expectation is that some
of the requirements and regulations
suggested already by the Biden AI
executive order which Trump has gotten
rid of that will be more of the future
that there will be less handholding less
less burdensome regulation just to allow
us companies to win that race as fast as
[Music]
possible thanks to Anna and Jeff for
coming on and explaining all of this to
Us rers world news is produced by Gail
Isa David Spencer Sharon R Garson
Christopher Wall Jasper and me Jonah
green our senior producers are Tara Oaks
and Carmel KMS our executive producer is
Leela dzer musical composition and sound
design by Josh
summer we'll be back on Monday with our
daily headline show to make sure you
never miss an episode click follow on
your favorite podcast platform or
download the rers app
[Music]
