today Israel is set to approve a Gaza
ceasefire and hostage release deal
spacex's Starship launch explodes just
minutes after launch how a mental health
center in Mexico is grappling with
extreme violence against migrants and
what we're watching for as the
Australian Open gears up for its final
week of
tennis it's Friday January 17th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Christopher walljasper in Chicago
and I'm Tara Oaks in
[Music]
Liverpool Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin netanyahu's office says
cementing the Gaza ceasefire deal is
imminent following an 11th Hour holdup
on Thursday the cabinet meets today to
give its final approval to the truce and
hostage release plan brokered with Hamas
in Gaza Israeli air strikes are ongoing
with Palestinian authorities reporting
at least 86 dead since a deal was
announced and in Washington DC
journalists who are outspoken critics of
American support for Israel lambasted US
Secretary of State Anthony blinken
during his swansong press conference
criminal why aren't you in the Hy why
aren you in the Hy why aren you in the
Hy
a Pakistani court has sentenced ex-
prime minister Imran Khan to 14 years in
jail in a land corruption case that's
according to a local
broadcaster Khan who had pleaded not
guilty has been jailed since August 2023
while fighting dozens of
cases Rudy Giuliani has reached a legal
settlement with two Georgia election
workers that he falsely accused of
helping steal the 2020 election for Joe
Biden he's agreed to stop defaming the
workers and in exchange will keep his
homes in Palm Beach and
Manhattan American filmmaker David Lynch
has died at the age of 78 known for his
Oscar nominated films like blue velvet
and malland drive as well as the TV
series Twin Peaks Lynch was considered a
master of surrealism and one of the most
Innovative filmmakers of his
generation the chief executive of Tik
Tok plans to attend Donald Trump's
inauguration two people familiar with
the matter told Reuters Shi Chu has a
seat of Honor on the dis typically
reserved for VIPs but no news of such
special treatment for his social media
app at this stage the platform plans to
shut its us operations just hours before
the event when a federal ban is set to
take
hold and an invitation but no RSVP yet
former president bolsonaro's defense
team has filed a late request with
Brazil's Top Court to urgently
reconsider the decision to Bar him from
traveling to the US to attend Donald
Trump's inauguration bolsonaro faces
criminal charges for allegedly plotting
a coup in the wake of his 2022 election
defeat and had his passport taken
away data shows that China economy
matched the government's Ambitions for
5% growth last year but in a lopsided
fashion that means complaints from many
about worsening living standards as
Beijing struggles to transfer its
industrial and Export gains to Consumers
the unbalanced growth raises concerns
that structural problems May deepen in
2025 when China plans a similar growth
performance by going deeper into debt in
an attempt to counter the impact of an
expected us tariff hike under Donald
Trump 5
4 two private space launches in just 24
hours LIF one Jeff bezos's blue origin
early Thursday morning successfully
launching its new Glenn rocket into
space for the first time engine continue
to perform well now pass and last night
spacex's seventh Starship prototype
launch which exploded around 8 minutes
after takeoff Airlines altered course to
avoid fiery debris that could be seen
streaking through the sky as the 37
story rocket broke apart as we were
checking in on the status of the ship at
this point in time we can confirm that
we did lose the ship SpaceX engineer
Kate Ty just minutes after the launch
the booster came back for a successful
the S the second ever booster catch at
the launch Tower the Aviation
Administration is likely to open an
investigation into the failure that
could delay musk's goal of launching at
least 12 Starship tests this year
booster FTS is
saved a warning this next story
discusses topics of sexual violence and
[Music]
Trauma at a doctor's Without Borders
facility in Mexico City ch play near an
NOA covered with marigolds and images
memorializing deceased friends and loved
ones of staff and
patients the medical center is caring
for the children's parents victims of
sexual and physical violence along the
treacherous migration route aimed at
reaching the US border and as our
reporter cassandre Garrison learned the
road to recovery from such traumatic
violence is its own Journey this Care
Center is one of the only facil ities of
its kind that does offer help to
migrants who have experienced extreme
trauma due to severe violence against
them either in their home countries or
during their migration route through
Mexico it's focusing on healing people
psychologically it offers support for
sexual violence beatings kidnappings
[Music]
extortion one of the Venezuelan women we
spoke to at this facility who's
undergoing treatment who asked not to be
named for fear of Retribution told us
about her experience with her family
crossing the Darian
gap of course she was well aware that
there was violence and because of that
they decided to dress their young
daughter as a boy
but they'd actually made it through the
worst of the Jungle but there was
actually a group of armed men waiting
for them and these men separated the
women and girls from their male family
members and they were able to trick
those gunmen into believing that their
daughter was a boy and she was able to
stay with her father and and luckily
wasn't harmed but this woman was was
then ordered to remove her
clothes she was sexually assaulted by
multiple men to the point where she told
me she actually just disassociated from
her body because what she was enduring
was so incredibly traumatic
mrey mrey
and she's been really trying to work
through this trauma which provoked panic
attacks and issues with her heart and
she was hospitalized at one point
because of this trauma that she had
endured now how frequent is this sort of
violence it's hard to find data on this
because most cases of extreme violence
suffered by migrants typically goes
unreported Doctors Without Borders has
noticed in the last few years violence
against migrants increasing and the
Specialists we spoke to attributed that
to a rise in women and children
[Music]
migrating as the Australian Open enters
its final week next week the year's
first major tennis tournament has
already dealt some surprising upsets and
given fans a lot to be excited for in
2025 Nick mulany is our asia-pacific
sports editor and has been covering the
open Nick in the men's tournament
several young up incomers have really
outperformed expectations what's going
on there well I think on the men's side
uh it's mainly been about teenagers
beating highly seated players with
American learner teen beating world
number five Daniel meddev in five sets
but that was only the third of three big
upsets that we've had so far here we've
had Brazilian Hal fona who took out N
Seed Andre rublev and cck Jacob menik
who knocked out six seed C spude so new
blood is coming and it's been very
exciting and on the women's side the age
upset looked a little different right uh
the oldest player German Laura Sigman
upset fifth seed Shen chin Wen yes that
was a bit of a shocker because Jen chenw
came in as a bit of a title hope here
yeah and she went down to a 36y old 37y
old so that was that was a remarkable
turn of events so early in the
tournament so what are you excited for
in this final week well I think the big
one for me is whether Novak jovic can
get his 25th Grand Slam title that would
make him without doubt the most
successful Grand Sam tennis player of
all time I'm really interesting to see
how Coco goof goes and the other one for
me is Naoma Saka who won this tournament
a couple of times then went off and had
her kid and she's come back in she
didn't play particularly well last year
but she's looked pretty good this year
and if she gets back to the form that
she was showing four or five years ago
she's going be pretty hard to
[Music]
stop it's Friday so a recommended listen
from us today check out our special
episode set for publication tomorrow all
about Donald Trump's inauguration what
to expect from the day itself and the
immediate aftermath for more on any of
the stories from today check out
reuters.com or the Reuters app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back on Monday
with our daily headline show
