today Trump says he'll let hell break
out if all Hamas hostages are not
released by Saturday musk sets his
sights on open ai's nonprofit and
workers protest after the US consumer
watchdog's boss tells staff to stop
[Music]
work it's Tuesday February 11th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Jonah Green in New York and I'm Tara
Oaks in
[Music]
Liverpool I'd say they ought to be
returned by 12:00 on Saturday and if
they're not returned all of them not in
drips and drabs not two a deadline three
and after that I would
say uh all hell is going to break out
and I don't ultimatum US president
Donald Trump wants Hamas to release all
hostages in Gaza by midday on Saturday
his comments coming on the heels of
hamas's announcement that it would stop
releasing hostages citing Israeli
violations of the truce our Middle East
editor Ed Blair joins us with more
Trump's comments obviously rais the
stakes in what is already appearing to
be a very fragile ceasefire it doesn't
mean that the ceasefire collapses but
certainly sources have been telling us
that there have been concerns
about how the Ceasar talks will progress
Trump has really upped the anti here
well I think if we look at the way Trump
has operated in the past and his
transactional style um it would fit the
idea that you move in with a very
demanding position go high and then come
down from there because everything else
looks more reasonable it is worth noting
that he did say that it was still in the
hands of Israel I think that from
Israel's point of view they are
obviously Keen to get the hostages out
so there may be plenty of reasons why
that keeps the ceasefire deal continuing
and to a degree on track and Trump is
meeting with Jordan's King Abdullah
later today what can we expect King
Abdullah has been very clear that he
alongside other Arabs opposes any
displacement of Palestinians but he is
finding himself in a difficult position
Jordan is heavily reliant on us Aid and
support um it is does consider itself a
regional security Ally of the United
States so he will need to tread
carefully and and diplomatically in
trying to balance the competing demands
uh of taking in Palestinians but also
retaining the support and Aid of the
United
[Music]
States Russia is playing hard ball on UK
ukine peace discussions moscow's
pointman for us relations has said that
all of President Vladimir Putin's
conditions must be met in full before
the war can end Trump says he's making
progress in talks with Russia and that
he's spoken to Putin the Kremlin has
refused to either confirm or deny
contact a judge has kept the block on
Trump's Federal buyout plan in place for
now it's a temporary victory for the
labor unions who have sued to scrap it
completely
the US has lifted a pause on food
donations that's according to the UN
world food program that move allows more
than half a million metric tons of food
currently at sea or ready for shipping
to head to its destinations under
existing usaid
agreements the US justice department has
directed Federal prosecutors in New York
to drop corruption charges against mayor
Eric Adams that's according to a memo
from acting dep uty attorney general
Amil B he pleaded not
[Music]
[Applause]
guilty investor Focus will be squarely
on Capitol Hill today where Fed chair
Jerome Powell is testifying before
lawmakers Carl crims has the details
this is Po's first appearance on the
hill since Trump took office and he's
sure to be questioned about Trump's
tariffs and the threat of rising
inflation from those import taxes
markets have already scaled back
expectations about rate Cuts this year
and in fact a majority of economists
think the central bank will wait until
next quarter before cutting again that's
according to the latest Reuters poll we
get into trade and what Trump wants from
those tariffs in the latest episode of
Reuters eccon world you can catch it on
the Reuters app or wherever you listen
to your podcasts
[Music]
a group led by Elon Musk says it has
offered
97.4 billion to buy the nonprofit that
controls open AI it's the latest move in
the billionaires fight to block the
artificial intelligence startup from
transitioning to a for-profit firm in
response open AI CEO Sam Alman posted on
X no thank you but we will buy Twitter
for
9.74 billion if you want musk and open
AI backer Microsoft did not immediately
respond to requests for comment Tech
reporter Anna Tong is in San Francisco
Anna is this a real offer I mean what is
musk up to here yeah it's kind of the
latest move in this Grudge Match that's
going on between Elon Musk and Sam mman
so Elon Musk was um one of the
co-founders of open and he provided the
then nonprofit with its initial funding
um and then subsequently he ended up
leaving because he got in a disagreement
and then opening decided to create a
for-profit entity in order to raise more
money to develop artificial intelligence
models and at some point Elon Musk got
really mad about this and he has now
made it one of his life's goals to stop
open aai from converting to a for-profit
entity how does this bid complicate that
effort the nonprofit is going to once
the company's converted is going to
basically own a small portion of the end
company so what they were um thinking
about was actually something in the
realm of 30 billion um and so now Elon
Musk has really upped the ante because
he's basically said like hey I think
that this is worth almost 100 million so
then now the nonprofits board of
directors if they want to sell this
stake to another entity they now need to
make a case for why it should be worth
less than what Elon Musk is bidding on
it
the Trump Administration is setting its
government slashing sites on another
agency the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau the agency's acting Chief Russell
VA temporarily closed its headquarters
over the weekend and says he plans to
quote zero out the agency's funding
hundreds of protesters gathered outside
the cfpb offices yesterday demanding to
be allowed to work
no hey
hey the financial industry and
Republican lawmakers have said the cfpb
is too powerful and lacks accountability
our US Financial reporter Douglas
gillison is looking into the impact of
the latest agency to be shuttered by
this
Administration so this is an agency that
has put forth regulations governing
credit card fees medical debt reporting
by credit bureaus helps you or protects
you when you are applying for a mortgage
taking out a student loan receiving pay
from your employer dealing with the pawn
shop buying a car doing all of these
things that constitute daily life for
everybody it was created following the
financial crisis of 2008 elizabth Warren
who first proposed the agency we created
and helped get it off the ground before
she was a Senator she's now the top
Democrat on the Senate Banking Committee
where she is uh sounding the alarm and
trying to say that this is an attempt to
kill the agency for political financial
gain on the part of allies of of
President Donald Trump the
cfpb is the cop on the beat that's right
and that cop is the one that caught the
crooks now V is the one in front of this
trying to shut down the cfpb but I think
a lot of people are watching Elon musk's
involvement here for possible conflicts
of interest a has suffered a great
decline in revenue from advertisers his
takeover and one of the new business
ventures that it has begun to move into
is payments they announced a deal with
visa to offer direct consumer payment
services and that would make the cfpb
one of Elon musk's regulators and our
report it indicates that the department
of government efficiency team has been
granted full administrative access to
all it systems in the building they can
see all of the examinations and notes
for potential competitors for x and the
payment space for Apple pay cash app all
of the other organizations that would
offer similar services and they can then
control their own regulator so the
potential conflict of an interest there
is probably without precedent Doge and
musk did not immediately respond to
requests for
[Music]
comment today's recommended read is more
of a mustsee a photo collection the
highlights on the catwalk and back stage
at New York Fashion Week there's a link
in the Pod description for more on any
of the stories from today check out
reuters.com or the roers app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back tomorrow
with our daily headline show
