today Justin Trudeau blames infighting
for his resignation Elon Musk puts
Britain's pm on the defensive nvidia's
stock surges as it unveils new video
game chips and we look at the impact of
Biden's oil and gas drilling
ban it's Tuesday January 7th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm David Spencer in London and I'm
Jonah Green in New
York this country deserves a real choice
in the next election and it has become
clear to me that if I'm having to fight
internal
battles I cannot be the best option in
that election Canada's Justin Trudeau
announcing as expected that he's
stepping down as prime minister in a
subdued statement outside his home in
Ottawa he's also announced that
Parliament will be suspended until March
24th as Canada prepares for an election
that must be held by October trudo's
former Finance Minister Christia
Freeland who quit the government last
month and former Central Banker Mark
Carney were among those being touted as
Replacements a powerful earthquake has
hit close to one of tibet's most sacred
cities with the epicenter around 50 Mi
north of Mount Everest dozens of people
have been killed and Tremors were also
felt in Nepal Bhutan and Northern
India Louisiana has reported the first
bird flu related death in the United
States the patient who was over 65 with
underlying health conditions was
hospitalized with the h5n1 virus in
December Rudy Giuliani has been found in
contempt of court for failing to provide
information to two Georgia election
workers who he accused of trying to help
steal the 2020 election for Joe Biden
the missing information could determine
which of his assets can be turned over
to pay off their $148 million defamation
judgment
[Music]
over the last few weeks Elon Musk has
been waiting into European and
particularly British politics is recent
criticism of prime minister K stama has
been about when he was Britain's top
prosecutor with musk claiming that stama
had failed to prosecute gangs who
sexually abused girls when he was in the
role musk's criticism has placed a
scandal from over a decade ago back in
the spotlight and put the PM on the
defensive Elizabeth Piper is our UK
political editor so Liz we in the US
have become quite familiar with musk as
a potent political force what's been his
effect on British politics well he's
enabled some of the opposition parties
to really intensify their criticism of
starma who since winning the election in
July has had a bit of a rocky ride what
are musk's main critiques here it does
seem to be his main interest at the
moment is immigration and
multiculturalism
want to put words into his mouth I
haven't interviewed him yeah but he does
seem to feel that Britain has failed in
multiculturalism by not calling out
instances such as the sexual abuse
Scandal which dates back actually to
1997 when men mostly of a South Asian
background were found guilty of
systematically grooming and then raping
young girls in parts of northern England
on the question of Elon Musk look starma
has been trying not to engage directly
with Elon Musk at all but on Monday it
was clear he was incredibly angry that
musk had brought into doubt his time as
the Director of public prosecutions
which basically is Britain's top
prosecutor and he was that between 2008
and
2013 which overlapped with some of these
cases and he used a press conference
when he was meant to be talking about
the Health Service to actually address
this criticism head on those that are
spreading lies and in misinformation as
far and as wide as possible they're not
interested in
victims they're interested in themselves
it was very interesting to see a man who
is normally quite Placid he was visibly
angry and frustrated that it had come to
this point and if there's one thing the
British prime minister is very proud of
and continually references is his time
as the Director of public prosecutions
here it is our brand new GeForce Nvidia
CEO Jensen hang kicking off the Consumer
Electronic Show in Las Vegas with a raft
of new product announcements the
chipmaker stock had already hit a fresh
all-time high even before hang spoke so
what did he unveil Max churny is in Las
Vegas for CES and has all the details
Nvidia announced a Ser of new video game
Graphics chips that will increase the
performance significantly and the new
graphics chips will improve the visual
quality of of the images Once video game
developers start to implement it Nvidia
announced a sort of Enterprise AI system
that will allow developers to simulate
the real world when they're teaching
robots and autonomous cars how to move
around the world and interact with the
world more effectively the idea being if
Nvidia can successfully simulate the
real world and experience for these
robots and autonomous cars it would
avoid the researchers and and companies
who are working on these problems from
driving millions and millions of real
world miles and potentially damaging or
breaking expensive robots in addition
and separately Nvidia announced a series
of new video game Graphics chips that
will improve the visual quality of
images Once devel video game developers
start to implement it what else can we
expect from CES this week Max well as
usual bigger televisions it's kind of a
little bit of a joke at this point but
every TV maker like Samsung and LG they
all show off the latest and greatest TVs
and CES has become probably the largest
auto show in the United States at this
point and so every major automaker will
show off some new prototypes or
capabilities in existing vehic
and so on and if you're interested in Ai
and what the future might hold for us
humans as the robots get smarter do
check out an earlier episode of our Ecom
World podcast we'll put a link to that
show in the description of today's
[Music]
pod President Joe Biden is Banning new
offshore oil and gas development along
most us coastlines the move is mostly
symbolic as it covers areas where it
drill Drillers don't have significant
prospects including the Atlantic and
Pacific Oceans however it could block
any moves by the Trump Administration to
expand offshore drilling reporter Nicola
groom has been looking into the impact
of the ban this will affect 625 million
Acres of ocean and will effectively ban
offshore drilling on the entire east
coast and the West Coast in addition to
a couple of other areas as well these
are not areas where offshore drilling is
happening right now and they're not
really areas with high potential for oil
production and they're not areas that
the industry is actively seeking to
lease or drill on currently but it does
mean that these areas will be off limits
in the future and so what might Trump do
or what can he do well he came out
quickly after the announcement was made
and called it ridiculous and said he
would quote unquote unban it
immediately but it's not going to be
that easy for him to do that the law
that gives a presidents the authority to
withdraw areas from offshore drilling is
a 70-year-old law and it was tested a
few years ago actually by President
Trump himself former president Barack
Obama had withdrawn some areas right
before the end of his presidency and
Trump tried to reverse that when he came
into office and a federal judge in 2019
said no that the same law that gives
presidents the authority to withdraw
portions of the ocean uh from offshore
drilling does not expressly give them
the authority to reverse those decisions
by their predecessors so it would likely
take an act of Congress to reverse this
decision by Biden so it's unclear
whether Trump himself could do very much
[Music]
and for today's recommended read we're
looking at housing in Hong Kong and the
tiny and cramped properties people are
living in due to Sky High prices where
four families might share a single
toilet and kitchen a link to the story
and an incredible set of photos is in
today's pod description for more on any
of the stories from today check out
reuters.com or the Reuters app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back tomorrow
with our daily headline show
