16-year-old aah Foster and her family
are combing through the gray Rubble of
what was once their home in the Pacific
Palisades then you come through here and
you see it all and it's like it is a
nightmare this is
just I this isn't real you never think
it's going to happen to you and then it
does of it the fires that have ripped
through LA County have flattened whole
neighborhood hoods charring them beyond
recognition Los Angeles County Sheriff
Robert Luna says it could be a while
until we know how many people have died
looks like a bomb an atomic bomb dropped
in these areas I don't expect good news
and we're not looking forward to those
numbers so many people have lost their
homes and businesses the beautiful
coastlines of Malibu and the celebrity
Mansions upon it have been turned to Ash
but so have historic neighborhoods and
the homes of regular workingclass people
on this weekend episode of Reuters world
news we'll ask our correspondents how
this fire raged out of control and what
might this mean for the future of Los
Angeles I'm your host Jonah
[Music]
green we're joined Now by climate
reporter Ali Withers entertainment
reporter Lisa Richwine and political
reporter Andy Sullivan hi all thanks for
talking today hello Jonah it's a delight
to be here thank you thanks for having
us first Lisa I understand you're in
Hollywood Hills right so you're the one
who's closest to this fire how are
things right now and I should not we're
we're talking midday Thursday well the
the fires are are still burning quite uh
briskly you know hopefully we are
through the worst of the damage it was a
real shock seeing you know waking up on
Wednesday morning and seeing the
devastation that was caused overnight I
mean the Pacific valades area on the on
the coast has been essentially wiped out
and that fire is still burning so
everybody's very anxious because you
don't know where the next fire is going
to come and how quickly it might be put
out so everybody's hoping that the worst
as far as the immediate impact is over
but of course there will be the the
long-term impact and the financial
losses people have lost their homes and
really just the city's been changed
landmarks parts of Malibu a bunch of
charming businesses on on the coast that
you know all people visited are just
gone so everybody's going to have to
kind of look around and see what see
what's still left and then recover from
everything Ally what struck so many of
us was that these are wildfires in
winter so this is not just a natural
disaster and this is about climate
change sure so experts will say there's
no such thing as a natural disaster
because the way that humans build cities
or roads or where they where people
choose to live how you allocate
resources influences to a large extent
how bad a disaster will play out so in
this case where you know you have these
sort of hot dry winds that roll
seasonally off these Hills and yet you
have developments in these areas of
course they're very attractive places to
live but it's not entirely unsurprising
that they wouldn't of course meet some
amount of fire in this particular
situation it wasn't the standard senta
an winds in fact it was a completely
different weather system that we saw
Winds of 100 m an hour that completely
dried out that vegetation in that Valley
so while the cause or the spark of the
fire is not yet known the conditions for
fire to happen have been boosted by a
warmer climate where you have drier
Seasons sometimes more prolonged
droughts so when that spark happens
under these extremely strong winds also
with a lot of vegetation that is not
natural to that landscape that is full
of resins that just pops Embers
everywhere it's not totally unsurprising
that you saw these catastrophic scenes
of people trying to flee in their cars
but those roads being blocked sometimes
by Fallen Boulders or trees that were
knocked down in the Windstorm and just
the chaos that ensued from there and
that chaos is partially why California
officials uh are coming under some
criticism for their response I mean most
notably from our incoming president um
but there were water shortages that
caused some hydrants to run dry in the
Pacific Palisades and the mayor of La
said that those hydrin were just not
designed to deal with such a massive
disaster but is there a conversation
about the response or or mitigation
efforts there's a conversation around
needing to do better fire management
this would include prescribed Burns at
safe times of the year California
actually did have a record year for
doing these sorts of prescribed Burns in
2024 but you know LA County La Basin
it's hard to do such a thing in fact I
don't think it happens and that's
because it's so densely populated
there's complaints there's air quality
concerns there's red tape it's less
likely to happen there last night in my
own neighborhood in the Hollywood Hills
there there was a vegetation fire that
spread to 60 Acres and they contained it
within several hours and there was no
structure damage and they were able to
get the the planes and helicopters and
the aerial water drops that make a big
difference and my understanding is that
they couldn't they couldn't do that on
Monday and that's why they got that out
and that probably saved my house last
night that they that they were able to
do that once the fires subside there
will be a lot of homeowners many of them
extremely wealthy who will be eager to
rebuild on what is still some of the
most valuable property in the world but
it is clear that they live in an area
prone to this kind of sudden catastrophe
and so Andy you have written on the
insurance angle here which is
increasingly an issue for other nice
areas hit by climate change like in
Florida at this point who will ensure
these areas is that going to be a
problem going forward during what is
likely to be a long and expensive
recovery yeah we've seen a sort of
growing crisis in home insurance playing
out in the United States over the past
five or six years as insurers have
really struggled to keep up with this
Cavalcade of natural disasters you know
recall hurricane Milton in North
Carolina last year there's been a string
of other hurricanes and California has
had sort of a steady drum beat of
damaging wildfires since
2018 the interesting thing about
California is that insurance prices have
not really risen along with the risk
insurance is much more affordable in
California relatively speaking than it
is in other states I crunched a bunch of
numbers and found out that Pacific
Palisades is it's one of the most
expensive neighborhoods in the entire
country and yet people pay on average
about as much for home insurance as they
do in the lower 9th ward of New Orleans
which is a much poorer much more modest
neighborhood and that is because
California has uh very consumer friendly
insurance laws which make it hard for
insurers to raise rates makes it hard
for them to adjust rates based on risks
like wildfire the downside of that is
that insurance companies have
increasingly been saying well forget it
we're not going to do business in this
state seven out of the 12 top insurers
have either been pulling out or scaling
back their coverage in recent years and
so the states recognized this the top
Insurance regulator unveiled a set of
reforms at the end of last year that
will allow companies to raise rates uh
to reflect risk and to take
forward-looking climate models into
account but it'll also require them to
write more coverage in uh risky areas so
there's a bit of a balancing act that
he's trying to pull off here what that
means is that certainly going forward
people in California are going to be
paying more for their home insurance
which is going to add to the crisis of
affordability in what is already a very
expensive state to
live will these fires change how people
rebuild is there a conversation about
materials and the technology or the
Landscaping that might prevent something
like this from happening again yeah the
industry in general has been trying to
encourage more responsible Home Building
in fire prone areas not just in
California but in places like Colorado
and much of the West too and I think
these new regulations would give
homeowners a bit of a break if they were
to do these things and that's like not
having bushes right near your house
making it harder for fires to jump
across your lawn to reach your house
more resistant building materials Etc so
I imagine when people rebuild they'll be
taking that stuff into account so some
of the Palisades is going to to have to
adhere to fire code in rebuilding that
will suggest needing to use more fire
resistant materials for instance or
Technologies but what a lot of experts
say is that we in general need to learn
how to live with fire we are in what
some experts called the pyrro so we are
in a time of extreme fire and increased
fire and that is because we have a
warmer climate and warmer atmosphere
drier forests so everybody should be
thinking about this but especially if
you're building and that would go from
everywhere from city planners to where
homes or businesses are allowed to be
located to of course the design of of a
building
[Music]
itself what's been the impact to the
entertainment industry well the
immediate impact is some Productions are
shut down uh the Oscar nominations have
been delayed by two days we've just
kicked off award season with the Golden
Globes everybody was feeling optimistic
about a new year and now other Red
Carpet Events are being postponed
so that's kind of put a cast over the
whole thing that is is you know not as
joyful in this celebratory season but
beyond that Hollywood has been through a
lot there were you know it was first it
was the pandemic where there was no
production then we had two strikes last
year where a lot of people were out of
work and the the industry still been
recovering from that especially the crew
members the workingclass people who work
on TV and movie sets a lot of them been
out of work for a long time and this is
just another disruption hopefully this
is a short short temporary one but you
know it also makes you wonder about the
long-term impact there's been production
leaving La anyway because it's expensive
to film here and you know I know there
are people asking questions like oh gosh
is this another negative for La as far
as when people are deciding where to
shoot are they going to once again
decide we want to go somewhere else and
a lot of people in the entertainment
industry live here they love it here and
they prefer to work here if they can I
just want to know there's been a lot of
coverage about the fact that among the
victims of this are rich and famous
people but there are also plenty of not
rich and not famous people whose homes
have been destroyed and and some have
lost their lives uh so what do we know
about the level of Destruction beyond
the celebrity mansions that have been
covered I mean I think they're already
saying that this is likely to be one of
the most expensive disasters in
California history ever if not the most
yeah and there there are also a lot of
people who are not well known and super
rich who who live particularly in the
fire that is on the east side of town in
Altadena and Pasadena that is not the
exclusive exclusive area of the
Palisades and even in the Palisades
there are some families you know who
have lived there for generations and are
not among the very wealthy boldfaced
names that you're all reading about and
also in the Palisades in particular a
lot of people worked there and a lot of
restaurants have been destroyed they you
know they worked you know Landscaping
for these beautiful mansions and and
doing other jobs and then they're not
going to have jobs to go back to so
there's going to be a ripple effect
among many different people not just the
wealthy people who can certainly afford
to rebuild their lives and do you know
people who have lost their homes the the
closest I know is we we have a colleague
who who lost her house that completely
burned to the ground she had to evacuate
the first night and when I first checked
in on her she was in a hotel and then
the next morning she learned that her
house was gone I know of other people
friends and Friends of friend friends
who've been affected for sure it's not
uh just the AA stars that were on the
red carpet a few days ago that have been
affected it's every day working people
who saved up to buy their house and and
now it's gone I know you're safe right
now which is good news but how does it
feel to be there right now and see all
of this outside your window it is I mean
I I I have like a knot in my stomach
it's just it's yeah you know everyone
keeps saying heartbreaking and going to
cliches and you know I'm having a hard
time finding words other than that but
aside from the financial losses again
that you know it's watching part of your
city burn and a beautiful part of the
city and even if you didn't live over
near the coast PE people visit there and
it's part of what they love about La is
we have these beautiful coastlines and
hiking trails that a lot of people in
the city use and it's what they love
about California and we don't know
what's left and like there you know
there were these little like fish Shacks
on on the shore in Malibu that have been
there forever and those have been
destroyed it's just it's changed the
city and a lot of the things we love
about it I mean that said I've been
thinking about this the past few days
like people ask well why do you live
there well the weather's beautiful and
we have some we have disasters and other
problems but it's the weather it's the
nature and the and the creative
Community here it's I think what
everybody loves putting those things
together and you know those things will
still exist even though you know we
we've lost a chunk of it um you know
it's it's still going to be a vibrant
and desirable place to live I
[Music]
think thanks to Lisa Andy and Ally for
their reporting and their time rotor
world news is produced by Gail Isa David
Spencer Christopher Wall Jasper Sharon R
Garson and me Jonah green our senior
producers are Oaks and caramel Kens our
executive producer is Leela dzer sound
design and music composition by Josh
summer we'll be back on Monday with our
daily headline show make sure to follow
on your favorite podcast player or
download the roers app
