today Trump's Administration plans to
revoke temporary legal status for
thousands of ukrainians why pickup
trucks helped save automakers from
Trump's tariffs for now fears of
political violence hang over a
controversial judicial election in
Mexico and how some companies who
ditched Dei publicly are still quietly
supporting
initiatives it's Thursday March 6th this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tor Oaken Liverpool and I'm Jonah
Green in New
York the US Administration plans to
revoke the legal status of
240,000
ukrainians who fled to the US during the
war potentially putting them on the fast
track to deportation
that's according to a senior official
and sources familiar with the matter it
could happen as soon as April um was
underway before the Oval Office bust up
between US president Donald Trump and
Ukrainian President Vladimir
zelinski the move comes as the US has
also hit paws on intelligence sharing
with Ukraine sources tell Reuters that
the Trump Administration has been
holding secret talks with Hamas in an
effort to secure the release of us
hostages still held in Gaza the move
breaks a long-standing diplomatic taboo
against negotiating with groups that the
US has designated as terrorist
organizations Trump on Wednesday issued
a stark new threat against the militant
group writing that quote not a single
Hamas member will be safe if you don't
do as I say release the hostages now or
there will be hell to pay
later Adidas says it sold its last pair
of Yeezy sneak
at the end of
2024 thus ends the liquidation of the
lucrative shoe partnership with the
rapper formerly known as Kanye West
whose anti-semitic rants caused the
company to part ways and Australia is
bracing for cyclone Alfred with
authorities urging residents in flood
prone suburbs of Brisbane to
evacuate a sigh of relief for automakers
after a last minute reprieve on tariffs
the Trump Administration saying many
North American built Vehicles would be
exempt if they already followed the
complex rules of the 2020 us Mexico
Canada agreement and if you're searching
for a reason behind this one Monon delay
look no further than America's love for
pickup trucks Nora eer is an automotive
correspondent based in Detroit pickup
trucks are really like the
quintessential American vehicle and they
do sway more Republican so we have some
survey data from Edmonds that shows that
pickup drivers are about twice as likely
to say they're Republican than Democrat
which is really no surprise to anyone
who's familiar with this industry but
yeah these are extremely important
Vehicles not just from the political
perspective but also because they fund
most of the profits for these automakers
so if you get in a situation where
production of these vehicles is in
hibited or they become pricier for their
buyers it turns into a real snag for the
automakers but also for the White House
why is this industry so vulnerable to
these tariffs so even if you buy a
vehicle in in the United States chances
are it's going to have a lot of content
from Mexico and Canada so automakers who
sell in the US have become very
dependent on these other North American
countries over the last decades and
especially since Trump enacted usmca in
his first term so it becomes really
tough for these automakers to untangle
their supply chains if you're adding 25%
tariffs on vehicles or even the parts
inside of them what's the view of these
tariffs from The Big Three so across the
board they've said they definitely want
to work with President Trump on hashing
this out but their main sticking point
is they want to be rewarded for becoming
compliant with usmca which is the trade
deal that he renegotiated and because
they have spent so much money investing
in North America they don't want to be
punished for not having all of that
production specifically in the US and
the main issue here is they say hey our
competitors can import products from
Asia duty free or with very small
tariffs in some cases and you're going
to slap a 25% tariff on us for importing
from Mexico it just really doesn't make
sense to
[Applause]
them Trump's temp temporary reprieve for
automakers has boosted stocks but to
sell off on bond markets is deepening
Carl KMS is here with more investors are
hoping that one month delay on auto
tariffs is a sign that trade tensions
may ease but geopolitical tensions are
roiling Bond markets investors are
worried about the amount of money
governments are going to be spending on
upgrading their militaries as old
alliances Fray Germany announced a
massive increase in defense spending
this week triggering a sell off in
German bonds and now Asian government
bonds are also falling as investors
realize geopolitical tensions there may
also cause a surge in defense
spending some us retailers including
Target and Amazon are publicly dialing
back diversity equity and inclusion
programs but behind the scenes they're
maintaining some aspects of those
initiatives the retailers have told
advocacy groups and individuals that
they will will still sponsor events like
Pride parades and will keep making
resource groups available Arian mmore is
looking at the Fine Line companies are
walking a cloud that's kind of hanging
over corporate America's head right now
is AG Pam bondi's calling Dei illegal
right no one wants the legal
implications along with consumer push
back it it's really really hard to tow
that line and so what we're seeing is
corporations they are either getting
right up to that line or the companies
that are rolling back Dei they want to
be way behind it so they're not even
under legal scrutiny I think the biggest
challenge for them is striking that
balance you're either going to piss off
the administration or you're going to
piss off your customers and at some
point you have to figure out who's worth
it to listen to you know you have
examples of like Costco that's doubled
down on their Dei initiatives they've
said it's good for business it's good
for the customers but other companies
don't want that potential liability as
this
[Music]
develops more than 6,000 candidates will
compete for judge and magistrate
positions in Mexico's First Judicial
election on June 1st the vote is part of
a controversial set of reforms called
for by former president andrees Manu
Lopez oor to root out corruption critics
say the reform risks politicizing the
judicial system making it more
vulnerable to the influence of organized
crime but the more immediate risk
experts say are the dangers for the
candidates themselves reporter Cassandra
Garrison has been looking into these
security concerns and the government's
response this overhaul of the judicial
system obligates judges and magistrates
in Mexico to be voted into their
positions by popular vote for the first
time in history but elections are very
dangerous business in Mexico the last
elections in 2024 uh that ushered in
president Claudia Shin Bal were some of
the deadliest in Mexico's modern history
there were at least 37 candidates
assassinated before voting day and it's
also risky to work in the judicial
branch of Mexico judges and magistrates
are often targeted for extortion threats
or deadly violence there have been at
least 22 judges or judicial workers
killed in Mexico since about 2012 is the
government indicating that it'll beef up
security measures the government has not
said and also declined our questions
about whether or not it's going to
provide some sort of special stepped up
security for judicial candidates we
spoke to several judicial professionals
judges retired Supreme Court Justices
also lawyers and law Prof professors and
every one of them has questioned how the
government can possibly keep candidates
in what's considered a pretty high stake
selection in Mexico safe judges and
magistrates are ruling on important
cases that touch organized crime it's a
very sensitive job and now with them
being exposed so publicly it could be
extremely dangerous for them for their
families so many people we spoke to
didn't believe that the government is
contemplating the seriousness of this
the exposure that they're obligating
candidates to and they also doubted the
government's ability to realistically be
able to protect those
[Music]
candidates for today's recommended read
the escalating conflict in Congo with
three neighboring armies already on the
ground the conflict that's been
simmering in the east of a DRC is
evolving into a wider Regional War there
a linked for story and uh incredible
graphic which shows the movement of
troops from Uganda Rwanda and Burundi in
the Pod description for more on any of
the stories from today check out
reuters.com or download the Reuters app
don't forget to follow us on your
favorite podcast player we'll be back
tomorrow with our daily headline show
