today the US economy grew solidly in the
third quarter but it's still voters main
concern and how election officials are
preparing for November 5th with ramped
up security North Korea tests an
intercontinental ballistic missile and
the scientists bringing the face for
woman buried as a vampire back to
life it's Thursday October 31st this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Christopher walljasper in Chicago
and I'm Tara Oaks in
Liverpool first to the issue which has
proved most important for us voters
across the Spectrum this election the
economy and data shows the US economy
continues to grow with consumer spending
increasing at its fastest Pace in a year
and a half the optimistic snapshot comes
days before Americans cast their vote
for president our economies and markets
editor Dan Burns is in New York Dan did
economists expect to see the sort of
growth we're seeing in the GDP report it
was a little softer than the consensus
estimate among economists but not by
much we've had people predicting that
this economy would drop into recession
for the last two years because we had
high inflation that the Federal Reserve
had to beat back with high interest
rates and what usually happens in that
scenario a recession it didn't happen
the job market is held up consumer
spending is held up it's not an economy
that's going to fall off into a ditch
but polls show that people continue to
have a negative view of it what's the
disconnect here I I've been for the
better part of two years calling this
the Sour Puss economy and that's because
no matter how well it does everybody has
a frowny face about it and there's
really one word for why inflation and
that led to high prices that have stuck
around they're not going down and that's
a corrosive effect on consumers and and
consumer attitudes in particular and you
know while inflation is going the way
policy makers want and it's back toward
Target it has left the economy with high
prices that are still too close in that
rear view mirror for consumers and
voters to forget
about Donald Trump continues to falsely
claim that he won the 2020 presidential
election and he signaled that he could
contest a possible loss to kamla Harris
this rhetoric is priming his supporters
to distrust the voting process which as
we saw on January 6th could have
volatile
consequences States across the country
are taking drastic measures to try and
ensure everything goes as smoothly as
possible on Tuesday and Beyond
reporter Joe tanani has been speaking
with election officials across the
country on how they're preparing so what
they've done in the past four years to
prepare for this presidential election
is to fortify literally their election
offices they've added security they've
added fencing in some places barbed wire
bulletproof glass to protect them they
are concerned about potential violence
AR down the counting of the ballots now
Trump has targeted a few Democratic
leaning cities in swing States here he
is at an Iowa rally last December so the
most important part of what's coming up
is to guard the vote and you should go
into Detroit and you should go into
Philadelphia and you should go into some
of these places Atlanta and you should
go into some of these places and we got
to watch those votes when they come in
how are officials in some of these
cities thinking about what's coming next
week one thing that they are very
focused on is to try to get the ballot
counted as quickly as they can in 2020
of course there was a pandemic election
tons of people voted by mail more than
they'd ever experienced before one thing
they really want to do is to get their
numbers out quickly in order to Tamp
down any
disinformation any kind of narrative
that there's some kind of Steal going on
they've all made plans with police and
security officials to make sure that
their operations are secured in
Philadelphia they've moved out of the
center of the city to a much more remote
location so they're trying to make sure
that the count goes as smoothly as
possible and that their workers are
protected and
secure how do you like my garbage truck
yes that's Donald Trump sitting in a
trump branded garbage truck in Green Bay
Wisconsin wearing a bright orange safety
vest to highlight President Joe Biden's
garbage
Gaff Biden's Tuesday comment in which he
appeared to describe one or some Trump
supporters as garbage under Kirk KLA
Harris's Unity pitch Biden says he was
referring to racist comments by a
speaker at Trump's rally referring to
Puerto Rico as an island of
garbage h5n1 bird flu has been found in
a pig for the first time in the United
States States pigs represent a
particular concern for the spread of
bird flu because they can become
co-infected with bird and human viruses
which could swap genes to form new
dangerous viruses that could more easily
infect
humans lebanon's prime minister says a
ceasefire deal with Israel could be
reached within days a proposal leaked by
Israel's can network has Israel withdra
its forces from Lebanon within the first
week of a 60-day ceasefire hezbollah's
new leader Naim km has responded saying
the group would agree to a ceasefire
within certain parameters if Israel
wanted to stop the
war North Korea says it's launched an
intercontinental ballistic missile test
the missile was in the air for nearly an
hour and a half making it the longest
test by North Korea before it splashed
down west of Japan's okushiri
Island the LA Dodgers have won the World
Series Series in a surprising comeback
the Dodgers won game five 7 to6 after
the New York Yankees prevented a sweep
in a game four blowout this is the
Dodgers Second World Series win since
2020 the Yankees last championship was
2009 now over to markets and it's a week
dominated by wall Street's big guns
stocks with so much Swagger they've
earned a nickname conjured from
Hollywood's Golden Age The Magnificent
Seven that's alphabet Amazon Apple meta
Microsoft Nvidia and Tesla now apple and
Amazon will report results to Wall
Street today a picking up from meta and
Microsoft which reported on Wednesday
Tesla got things rolling on a high note
last week exciting investors with bold
EV sales forecasts alphabet kept the
momentum going earlier this week by
beating profit and revenue estimates on
strength in YouTube ad sales and its
Cloud business but it wasn't all
sunshine and Roses Microsoft and meta
both flagged ballooning costs from AI
Investments making investors ansy about
what Amazon will have to say on the
topic now you can track the latest data
with our Nifty magnificent 7 monitor on
reuters.com or the Reuters app and I'm
not just sitting in for criman today on
markets I'm also guest hosting for her
on econ world this week check out our
latest episode on carbon trading you can
find it wherever you listen to
[Music]
podcasts now would we leave you without
a scary Halloween story never more
gather
around buried with a padlock on her foot
and an iron sickle across her neck zosa
was never supposed to be able to come
back from the dead intuned in an
unmarked cemetery in pien North Poland
the young woman was one of dozens feared
by her neighbors to have been a
vampire Now using DNA 3D printing and
modeling clay a team of scientists has
reconstructed zha's 400-year-old face
revealing the human story buried by
Supernatural beliefs these people
burying her they've made everything they
could in order to prevent her from
coming back from the dead and we have
made everything we can in order to make
her come back to life that's scientist
Oscar Nelson he says the analysis of
zha's skull suggests she suffered from a
health condition which would have caused
fainting and severe headaches as well as
possible mental health issues when they
they said it was a vampire I got of
course both a bit scared in a way uh and
also I I got the idea that I would try
to make her as a human and not as this
monster that she's buried
as for today's recommended read we take
you to Pakistan where Surfers are making
waves on social media in a nation
dominated by cricket and hockey you can
read more about their struggles with
with Messy waves and unimpressed parents
in the show description for more on any
of the stories from today check out
rus.com or the roers app to never miss
an episode follow us on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back tomorrow
with our daily headline show
