today Trump says the US will take over
Gaza and that all Palestinians should
leave we he the reaction from
Palestinians on the ground and followed
the Journey of one family heading back
home in Gaza after the ceasefire deal
with Israel plus El Salvador's offer to
host us
prisoners it's Wednesday February 5th
this is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Jonah Green in New York and I'm Tor
Oaks in
London the US will take over the Gaza
Strip and we will do a job with it to
we'll Own It president Donald Trump says
he wants the US to take over the Gaza
Strip and redevelop it after
Palestinians are resettled somewhere
else economic development that will
Supply Unlimited numbers of jobs and
housing for the people of the area Trump
selling the pitch which upends Decades
of US policy towards the Israeli
Palestinian conflict much like the real
estate developer that he is be a wise
guy but the Riviera of the Middle East
this could be something speaking at a
press conference alongside Trump Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said
the idea was worth considering Trevor
Honeycut was at the White House his
remarks raised a ton of questions from
feasibility to
legality and the status of the Gaza
Strip itself is something that has been
in question for many years the question
of of who owns the Gaza Strip and who
will control the Gaza Strip is kind of
one of the foundational questions of
whether we'll ever get to a two-state
solution that gives Palestinians a state
we're talking about Palestinian people
who were displaced and dispossessed from
parts of what is now Israel and Trump
now has this idea of sending them to new
places again and so where these people
would go how they would get there how
the United States would control this
territory which is still extremely
unstable and dangerous whether troops
would be involved all of that was left
unanswered by this press conference I
think we're also interested in seeing
how does this affect the ongoing Gaza
ceasefire question does this provoke
Hamas does this put the deal at risk
that is allowing hostages now to come
out of Gaza and so all of those are kind
of questions that we want to keep
exploring in the next few
days on the ground in Gaza where the
first phase of a fragile Israel Hamas
ceasefire is in effect some families are
just starting to get back to their homes
ismel Muhammad his wife and six children
have been living in a sprawling camp and
are now heading back to their home in
the
north it's an 11 mile walk to jabalia
and for Ismael it's a brutal one he
walks with a stick after his leg was
injured in an air strike and he lost an
arm before the war to
diabetes at the end of their Journey
they find the neighborhood and their
house
[Music]
flattened many Palestinians say they
want to go home despite the widespread
destruction our senior Palestinian
territories correspondent is nidal al-
mrai the Palestinians who rushed back
after the ceasefire took effect they
rushed back to their homes in Northern
Gaza knowing that these houses may not
be still standing have rejected Trump's
you know remarks they want to go back to
where they lived for much of their lives
and even live in a tent but next to the
rubble of of their houses the issue of
displacement is very sensitive to
Palestinians in particular Trump's
remarks reminded the Palestinians of the
1948 Middle East War when uh hundreds of
thousands of Palestinians fled or were
forced to flee their hometowns and
Villages the Palestinians were displaced
in 1948 they called it Nea or k rophe
and what has been the wider reaction in
the Middle East Hamas rejected totally
Trump's remark described them as
ridiculous and absurd Saudi Arabia
voiced their support to this two-state
uh solution so echoing again their
outstanding position of supporting the
Palestinians in establishing and having
their own independent state the
Australian prime minister also
reiterated the position of his
government in supporting the two-state
solution and the rights of the
Palestinians to have their own uh state
it was a shock and cerebrales for for
many Swedish police are warning that
misinformation is being spread on social
media following the country's deadliest
gun attack 11 people were killed at an
adlet education center on Tuesday the
suspected perpetrator is among the dead
and the motive is
unknown federal government employee
unions are suing the Trump
Administration to block its buyout for
federal workers the news comes after a
Us official told Reuters that more than
20,000 employees are planning on taking
the deal to receive pay and benefits
through September 30th and the CIA has
offered buyouts to its entire Workforce
citing an aim to bring the agency in
line with Trump priorities that's
according to two sources familiar with
the
matter military aircraft carrying
detained migrants flew to Guantanamo Bay
on Tuesday the Trump Administration has
said it will potentially house tens of
thousands of migrants at the Naval Base
in
[Music]
Cuba are you expecting a new crop top
from shien or maybe a te shirt from teu
well you may be waiting KL km is here to
tell you why so the US Postal Service is
temporarily suspending packages from
China and Hong Kong potentially delaying
or blocking shipments from retailers
like Shen and timu the move comes after
president Trump ended a trade exemption
this week that's used by Chinese
retailers to ship packages worth less
than $800 dutyfree to the US it was
removed as part of new US tariffs on
Chinese Goods and its removal makes
products sold by the likes of shien and
teu more expensive and if you're
interested in understanding what Trump
is doing with his tariffs and threats of
tariffs stay tuned for this week's
Reuters econ World
[Music]
podcast as we mentioned in the show
yesterday Salvadoran president naib
bukele has offered to house in his Mega
prison dangerous criminals from anywhere
in the world deported by the US that
offers is not just for migrants but also
includes criminals who are US
citizens something that US Secretary of
State Marco Rubio didn't outright reject
despite the apparent illegality of such
a move reporter Sarah kosian covers
Central America Sarah can you describe
this prison system that these migrants
might be fed into bukel is most known
for his Crackdown on crime particularly
the country's notorious gangs as part of
that Crackdown he has suspended
constitutional rights and Ne saav now
how now has one of the highest
incarcerated populations in the world
about 2% of adults are behind bars so
you know in El Salvador the prison
system before bukel came in was
notoriously overcrowded with terrible
conditions very underfunded once guel
came in as part of his crack on on the
gangs he built a mega prison that has a
capacity of around 40,000 people as of
now as far as I understand from
Salvadorian human rights organizations
there are about 15,000 to
20,000 people that are currently in the
jail which means that there is space for
it to be filled out and so what does
president bukel get out of this
potential deal with the US he put on X a
message about how the United States was
going to help with El Salvador's nuclear
energy there's also on the table this
issue of TPS for salvadorians I believe
around 250,000 have protected status in
the United States and in March that
would be the deadline for the Trump
Administration to revoke
TPS and right now around I think last
year about a quarter of El Salvador's
economy was based on remittances money
sent to the country from diaspora
primarily in the United States
[Music]
our recommended read today is a look
back at the life of the agak Khan who
has died aged 88 as the 49th hereditary
Imam of the world's 15 million is
Muslims his name also became synonymous
with success as a race horse owner with
the thorough bread Shar among his most
famous you can hear more about him by
following the link on the Pod
description for more on any the stories
from today check out reuters.com or the
Reuters app don't forget to follow us on
your favorite podcast player we'll be
back tomorrow with our daily headline
show
