today arrests in the UAE in connection
with the murder of an Israeli Rabbi the
deal finally lands at cop 29 but has
already faced criticism that it's not
enough and Australia faces a critical
week in its plans to ban social media
for under
16s it's Monday November 25th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tor Oaks in
Liverpool investigations are underway
into the crash of a cargo plane near
lithuania's vnus airport earlier today
at least one person died when the
737-400 came down at the end of a flight
from liik in
Germany Hezbollah has fired heavy rocket
barges at Israel with some landing near
Tel Aviv
that follows a powerful Israeli air
strike the day before that killed at
least 29 people in
Beirut a shock result in Romania's
presidential election with the
hard-right NATO critic kin Jesu in first
place after almost all the votes counted
he set to face Center Right leader Elena
lasone in the runoff in two weeks
time the LA government says it is
profoundly saddened after the deaths of
several foreign tourists from drinking
Kent contaminated alcohol an American
two Danes two Australians and a Britain
have died after drinking alcohol
contaminated with methanal in
bangang markets are cheering Donald
Trump's decision to tap investor Scott
Besson as treasury secretary KL cmans is
here to tell us why so the job of
Treasury secretary is one of the most
powerful in Washington if not the world
you have huge influence over the US
economy and financial markets and
investors are relieved that Trump has
gone for bessent you're seeing stocks
and bonds rallying today they're betting
that he will be a steady hand Trump's
tax and tariff plans are seen by Manny
as inflationary but investors expect
bessent to prioritize Market stability
he's talked about cutting the deficit
and so Bond investors like that our
colleagues who cover Wall Street are
reporting that bessent has scored a
double win with Trump's Victory right he
got the big job but he also got some big
investment returns that's right so
bessent runs a hedge fund called key
Square group and until this year he's
actually had a mixed track record with
years of inconsistent returns but
Reuters is reporting that he bet big on
Trump winning the election he told
clients back in January that political
and Market analysts were too negative on
what a trump Victory could mean so he
bought up US stocks and the dollar and
that's helped the fund earn a double
digit percentage return so far this year
with November being the best month and
if if you're interested in all things
financial and economic do check out my
podcast Reuters econ world we look at
the economic principles driving the news
this week's episode out on Wednesday is
going to be all about inflation and you
can catch it on the Reuters app or
wherever you listen to your
[Music]
podcasts to the United Arab Emirates now
where authorities have arrested three
suspects in relation to the killing of
Israeli Rabbi zv kogan that's according
to the amirti interior minister
kogan was reported missing on Thursday
and his body was discovered on Sunday in
the emirati city of al- on the Oman
border Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu denouncing the crime as a
heinous anti-semitic terrorist act
Alexander Cornwell is in Dubai with the
latest the United Arab Emirates Ministry
of interior announced that authorities
had arrested three suspects alleged to
be involved in the murder and that is
about
they have said they have not revealed or
disclosed any information on the three
suspects identities how they were
allegedly involved in the murder or
whether or not they had been charged
with any crimes so what do we know about
Rabbi z kogan z kogan was a 28-year-old
man who had been living in the United
Arab Emirates for several years he was a
jewel Israeli movan National and what we
understand is that he was working with
the New York base Orthodox Je Jewish
habad movement and through the habad
movement Z was involved in Outreach to
the Jewish Community here now the United
Arab Emirates is a country of some 10
million people where most of the
population are foreigners there is a
sizable and growing Jewish community in
the country there are no official
numbers on how many they are but various
Jewish groups represent that there are
several thousand Jews living in the
country how has this Jewish community in
the US reacted the United Arab Emirates
has carefully crafted an image that it
is a a safe environment where people of
different religions different
ethnicities can work the investigation
is still on the way and authorities have
not disclose if they've established a
motive but from some of the members of
the Jewish Community here that I've
spoken to they're certainly expressing
shock surprise and confusion that such a
crime could take place here I was
speaking with a Israeli foreign Ministry
official who was saying that their
advice to Israelis is to stay alert and
to lower their
profile people doubted that aeran could
deliver they doubted that everyone could
agree cop 29 president Makar babayev
closing the Baku climate Summit on
Sunday
morning but even as he was still reading
out the details of the 300 billion doll
Finance plan to help developing nations
cope with global warming recipients
slammed it as woefully inadequate I
declare the 29th session of the cop 19
session of the CMP and six session of
the CMA
closed while some delegates gave the
deal a standing OB others have lambasted
wealthy Nations for not doing more
Valerie vavich was there for us what
they agreed in the early morning hours
of Sunday was a new goal for mobilizing
climate Finance so money to support
poorer developing countries to combat
climate change to adapt to climate
change they've agreed to mobilize at
least 300 billion per year by 2035
that's replacing a previous Target of
100 billion which was met just two years
ago so why has the deal being greeted
with such anger by some countries there
was a real rush to get this deal done
and I think that forces happening
outside of the cup such as the election
of Donald Trump as president in the
United States upcoming elections in
Europe kind of really created this sense
of urgency to get some kind of deal done
in Baku what we were seeing were certain
parties including India and Nigeria
raising objections to how the process
was conducted they felt that they
weren't consulted in getting to this
agreement and earlier in the weekend we
had seen a walk out by some of the least
developed countries and the island
States they also walked out again
feeling that they were really not
consulted in the process and that there
was a sense of trying to Ram down this
deal which really fell short of the
total amount that some of the world's
most vulnerable countries wanted to see
from rich
countries Australia's groundbreaking
move to ban certain social media for
children under 16 is facing a critical
week but the far-reaching measure to
kick younger teens off Tik Tok Snapchat
and other platforms is facing opposition
from a variety of quarters
alist pal is our breaking news editor
for Australia alist how would this ban
actually work in practice there's a
12month window in the legislation before
it comes into effect from the day that
it's passed so the government has has a
bit of time to work that out they've
launched a trial of various ID methods
to to verify that users are over 16 so
it could be inputting some form of of
government ID like a passport or a
driving l
it could be contacting your bank for
example to verify that you have a credit
card and therefore you're over the age
of 16 or it could even involve a scan a
biometric scan of your face to determine
your age and despite this support which
has been across political parties there
has been some criticism right what's
been some of the opposition to the
proposed ban the first would be the
Fairly obvious privacy concerns there's
a little bit of unease about about
sharing this level of data Australia is
a country that's suffered a couple of
Fairly major data breaches in in recent
years and one of the one of the biggest
critics in this regard is is the world
riches man Elon Musk who is obviously
the owner of of X and he he basically
claims it's a backd door way for the
government to control access to the
internet uh the second is is probably
the impact on children the government
says it's trying to protect children
from from things like bullying or child
Predators but you know some opponents
argue that it's actually risking cutting
children off from the internet which
obviously now plays a huge role in in
all of our
[Music]
Lives before we go just time to point
you in the direction of today's
recommended read all about how Donald
Trump Jr has emerged as the most
influential Trump family member as the
president-elect builds his cabinet Don
Jr has been seeking out contenders who
Embrace an anti-establishment worldview
including protectionist economic
policies as well as ensuring candidates
are loyal to his father there's a link
to find out more in the Pod description
and for more on any of the stories from
today check out rs.com or the Reuters
app to never miss an episode follow us
on your favorite podcast player we'll be
back tomorrow with our daily headline
show
