[Music]
I can tell you that Canadians right now
are upset we're angry we are dismayed
they're they're absolutely insane uh our
two countries have worked together
forever well it's all comes to Donald
Trump right the constant jokes about
annexing Canada uh Canada being the 51st
state it it's absolute ridiculous what
he wants is to see a total collapse of
the Canadian economy he called our
border a fictional line and repeated his
disrespectful 51st state rhetoric
that'll make it easier to Annex
[Music]
us Canadians are
angry and the president of the United
States isn't backing down why would we
pay $200 billion a year in subsidies to
Canada when they're not a state you do
that for a state but you don't do that
for somebody else's country so I think
Canada is going to be a very serious
Contender to be our 51st St this anger
is reshaping Canadian
politics a new prime minister's been
sworn in despite never being elected to
a political office we didn't ask for
this fight but Canadians are always
ready when someone else drops the
gloves on this special episode of
Reuters world
news how Canada approaches this
political moment and how the fight with
America is affecting everyday life we
are Canada
strong
Canada I'm your host Christopher
walljasper in
[Music]
Chicago I'm joined today by our cada
bureau chief Caroline stalford
uh Caroline how's Toronto Toronto is
warming up it's not quite as chilly as
it's been but it has been a very active
News Scene here I'm sure and David
youngren covers breaking news and
Canadian politics from the capital
Ottawa hey David how are you I'm fine we
are kind of finally looking at the snow
melting the last two Winters before this
were absolutely miserable but this
Winter's been a good one so lots of snow
for once being in Chicago I'm the one
with the tropical weather that's a
that's a new one for me well so there's
a lot of Canadians pretty upset with the
us right now help me understand from
where both of you sit who's more mad at
the US Toronto or Ottawa I was just in
Ottawa and witnessed a protest outside
of the Parliament building that had
nothing to do with Canadian politics it
had everything to do with Donald Trump
and that kind of surprised me I have not
seen that kind of display in Toronto
there were signs criticizing Trump's
imperialism saying the free North loud
and peeved very angry people in Toronto
I think we're seeing more in stores you
cannot buy American wine in liquor
stores anymore and you go to a grocery
store and there's definitely Maple
Leaves everywhere encouraging consumers
to buy Canadian yeah I mean from from
the political side I mean I think it's
fair to say there's a great sense of
betrayal because the US was always seen
as Canada's main Ally through thick and
thin military economically the two
countries are incredibly tightly
intertwined and to suddenly have your
best friend go Rogue and it's clear that
while government ministers are trying to
be polite the irritation is starting to
show I mean last week the foreign
minister referred openly to what was
happening in the white house as a Psycho
Drama which is a word that you would
never ever have imagined a Canadian
politician using to describe what's
happening in the White House absolute
sense of betrayal and then alarm cuz if
you're main friend and your main trade
part and a sudden he does turn on you
you are kind of stuck because the
Canadians they have free trade deals
with various small countries they have a
free trade deal with the European Union
but I mean the states take 75% of all
exports certainly certainly so some
Americans hear Trump say things about
making Canada the 51st state and see it
as hyperbole but it seems that that's
maybe not how Canadians see it yeah I
think early on when Trump first started
posting on social media about the 51st
state Canadians sort of thought okay
that's a joke it's not particularly
funny that started to change about a
month six weeks ago when it has been one
of Trump's most Relentless posts on
social media the 51st state Canadians
would be better off it's at least once a
week if not every day that this comment
comes up but it'll be for the state one
of our greatest States maybe our
greatest State and then Trudeau actually
told a room full of Business Leaders
that he did think the threat was serious
and he thinks that Trump is interested
in Canada's natural resources yeah I
mean Trudeau was giving an address to
Business Leaders and his comments in
public were fairly Bland and then as the
reporters were let out of the room he
began expressing his feelings much more
frankly but it was done in such a way
that any reporter with half a brain and
a microphone could actually hear what
was going on so it was clear that
Trudeau wanted the message to get out
that Trump was serious about annexation
now there are many many reasons to
believe this would be astoundingly
complicated especially when Trump talks
about minerals he seems fixated on
getting a more reliable supply of
Canadian critical minerals and he's also
fixated on the Arctic now the challenge
with this idea is that the Canadian
Arctic is 4.4 million square kilometers
of not very much basically it's ice it's
ice ice and Frozen waterways I've been
to the Arctic several times it is an
astoundingly difficult place to work in
and climate change is only making things
worse as someone said to me many years
ago we know how to drill in normal
ground we know how to drill in
permafrost but we don't know have to do
is to drill in permafrost that's melting
so you have stories you have stories of
rigs suddenly lurching 45Â° because the
ground underneath the rig suddenly
melted so you can't just Walt in and
start mining in the Arctic it's just not
going to
[Music]
happen Okay I have to ask and maybe
David you can explain this to me last
weekend on Saturday Night Live Canadian
comedy Legend Mike Myers was on and was
wearing a shirt defending Canada and
then mouthed this phrase elbows up and
kind of you know tapped his elbow and
this seems like a rallying cry we've
seen this other places I think even
Trudeau said it at one point it's not a
a phrase I'm familiar with down here can
you explain the elbows up yeah it's it's
the equivalent to gloves off or studs up
in soccer gloves off in boxing elbows up
is a hockey term yeah if you fly into a
confrontation with someone with their
elbows up you are clearly sending a
message that you're ready for a fight
you want to do them some harm yeah it
basically means enough nonsense we're
getting serious now so yeah it's a very
very Canadian phrase so let's jump into
the politics here the liberal party last
weekend elected Outsider Mark Carney as
their head he was sworn in as prime
minister on Friday does the average
Canadian think that he's going to have
the uh the medal to stand up to Trump
and and all of this uh this rhetoric
these are very unusual times I mean
let's make quite clear here that in a
normal political cycle Mark Cony
wouldn't get within 2,000 miles of where
he is I mean he's the first person ever
to have become Prime Minister without
any political experience at all he's
never been a legislator much less a
cabinet minister he is the ultimate
Outsider but what people appear to want
is someone who can deal with Trump
someone who has a lot of experience of
dealing with crisis so Mark County when
he was Central Bank governor in Canada
dealt with the 2008 2009 financial
crisis and when he was in England he
dealt with brexit and there are
criticisms in both countries of how he
managed elements of both those crises
but I think it's generally accepted he
did pretty well so he comes in with no
whatsoever saying look these are
extraordinary times you need my
experience so that certainly won in the
leadership of the liberal party in a
landslide but polls tend to suggest that
he is tied with the opposition
conservative party who are most likely
to be the main Rivals and it is quite
likely that you have two parties both
telling electors give me a strong
mandate to deal with Trump whoever wins
is going to have a minority of seats in
Parliament and in Canada minority
governments tend not to last very long
and because you can fall at any point
you continually try to shore up your
support so these could be very very
unpredictable times we've heard several
political analysts use the term an adult
in the room to describe the sudden
appeal of Carney in politics which um I
thought was was interesting because the
situation has completely changed since
last year when the Liberals were
trailing the conservatives by some 20
points but two things have changed since
then Trudeau resigned who was deeply
unpopular at that time Opening space for
new candidate and Trump started
attacking Canada which made people look
South of the Border and think hold on
what's actually the best for our country
at the moment and then comes Carney but
Carney wasn't even an elected Minister
before this and now he's the Prime
Minister how how does that even work is
that possible it is possible it's
happened once before in 1984 when John
Turner
was elected leader of the party without
a seat I mean and Even Turner had had a
long history of serving in previous
liberal governments as a cabinet
minister so he kind of knew his way
around the room I mean this really is
extraordinary it wasn't as though Kan
had even been a kind of a an Ever
present in Canadian politics I mean as
Banker Canada Governor you aren't
allowed to be political and then he'd
spent 10 years in Britain and then he'
come back and worked in finance I mean
his name was always mentioned as a
potential candidate but he was very very
low profile so it's not as though this
was the obvious successor to Trudeau
when Trudeau stepped down he wasn't in
fact you could argue that Christoph
Freeland the former Finance Minister was
in some ways one of the obvious
successes so so Cy really has kind of
burst onto the scene and people don't
really know very much about him he
certainly doesn't come across as a
politician I mean even people who
support him will admit that his delivery
is kind of central Banker like he has a
fairly flat delivery he's not able to
kind of whip a crowd up he stands there
and just talks my government will put
into action our plan to build a stronger
economy to create new trading
relationships with reliable trading
partners but his message is I am not a
politician I'm an outsider we do not
need normal politicians right now we
need someone who knows what he's doing
when the situation is bad yeah and only
150,000 party members actually voted in
the liberal leadership contest and this
is a country of 40 million people of
course one question that that Carney has
been been asked is actually how involved
was he in the Trudeau government because
what he is facing now is the
conservatives kind of accusing him of
being an adviser in the background and
they're trying to kind of paint him as
continuity with Trudeau carne's response
to that has been look I've on the board
of several organizations I've been doing
all these things with the United Nations
other organizations when would I really
have had time to advise Trudeau but I
think it remains to be seen how
successful he'll be campaigning against
a career politician who has been
preparing for this fight for for years
now now it strikes me David you referred
to carne's affect as somewhat flat in
recent weeks we've seen another Canadian
politician really step into the
Limelight right uh Doug Ford the
provincial premier of onario now I'll be
honest I didn't know who Doug Ford was
before all this some Americans might
remember his brother former Toronto
mayor Rob Ford for his viral moments a
little over a decade ago but Doug seems
to be a big contrast to Mark carne's
more mild approach we will apply maximum
pressure to maximize our leverage that's
why today we're moving forward with a
25% charge on electricity exports how
exactly did Doug Ford find his way into
this conversation well as a vacuum I
mean Trudeau is still in office but
isn't really acting as a prime minister
Carnie is not in office yet so he can't
do anything and so for the last week 10
days or so there's been a vacuum at the
heart of power in Ottawa with no
coordinated approach from the federal
side so Ford just saw this Gap and
decided to go for it now Ford is not an
experienced International politician he
I think has said and done things that
clearly irritated Trump no end and he
has been talking about how he's going to
go to Washington and talk about an early
renegotiation of this trade deal as a
provential premier he has absolutely no
say whatsoever in what is absolutely a
federal jurisdiction so another Canadian
expression which I actually quite like
he's um he's getting ahead of his skis
certainly as the as they say in Canada
so you have to have then Federal
politicians stepping in to quietly say
well in fact this is one for us but I
mean there was a vacuum and he felt that
someone had to stand up and be as they
say as there's this phrase Captain
Canada in times of a crisis you want
someone to kind of stand up with the
cape and the hat so he he took on the
role of Captain Canada and again given
that there were no adults minding the
store in Ottawa he basically took the
ball and run with it I think what we saw
happen last last week was a bit too
chaotic for many Canadians tastes I
think just that back and forth has just
left many Canadians feeling quite
whiplashed about what tariffs are in
place what they might be facing because
all of this will have a real economic
impact on on Canadians on people's jobs
on their spending power on the currency
where they can travel so there is
definitely a sense of fatigue over the
Tariff policy so carne's now prime
minister what happens next we've been
told by sources in the liberal party
that his intention is actually to call
an election as soon as possible that
will enable him to form a more permanent
cabinet and just know what the Mandate
is and kind of end this period of
uncertainty so if that happens in the
next week or two a federal election
could occur in Canada in about a month
and we will know if the conservatives
Prevail or if if Carney manages to pull
off what would essentially be a a very
big upset what do the other parties in
Canada see as the way forward as we we
head towards an eventual election
Trudeau governed for almost three years
with the help of the the new Democrats
which like the Liberals attract the
center left vote polls tend to suggest
that the new Democrats are going to get
stomped the greens only have three seats
so the only serious opposition party is
the block Kea which in a uniquely
Canadian twist is in fact a separatist
party that sits in the federal
Parliament so if the Liberals win the
election and don't have a majority in
the House of Commons it is easier to see
how they could Cobble together another
agreement to govern than it is for the
conservatives because the conservatives
don't really have any other obvious
Partners in Parliament so balance of
power tends to favor the center Center
left parties in Canada but as Caroline
mentioned the conservatives were seeing
a rise in in popularity uh before this
breakdown with the US what was behind
that increase as we saw in many parts of
the world coming out of the pandemic
Canadians grappled with high inflation
and cost of living here in particular a
a housing crisis and it really seemed to
be economic factors that were kind of
behind the decline in Trudeau's approval
numbers so I think that's also behind
the rise of the leader of the
conservative party Pierre POV he had
participated in some anti-government
anti-vaccine mandate protests in in
Canada and gotten some attention that
way and some of the factors that were
behind Trump's election in the United
States have also played out in in Canada
at least before we got into this trade
situation yeah and also Trudeau is a
very divisive figure I mean he you know
people who love him love him and people
who hate him really hate him there was
there wasn't much middle ground and when
he came into power in 2015 he replaced a
fairly should we say stolid conservative
prime minister who wasn't very exciting
and Trudeau came in overtly pro-
feminist Pro
LGBT just a fresh face funny confident I
mean trudo Mania really was a word I
mean I went with with him on his first
trip to Manila in November 2015 he was
mobbed in a conference center his
security detail had to kind of pluck him
out of this crowd and whisk him away but
to Carolina's point I mean Co didn't
help in the sense that Trudeau came on
TV almost every day to reassure
Canadians about what the government was
doing don't be scared we've got your
backs and I think people who work for
him will admit now he was grossly
Overexposed and Caroline's point the
ructions caused by Co know a lot of
people lost their jobs a lot of people
died and the combination of people being
fed up with Co and just fed up with
government and fed up with Trudeau yeah
in the last 18 months before the Trump
threats his Figures were through the
floor but this is nothing unusual in
Canadian politics I mean Canadian Prime
Ministers very rarely lasts more than 9
or 10 years so what's unusual about the
prospect of a Cary Victory is that the
lifespan of the government which would
normally have ended in about 10 years
with the conservatives coming in could
be extended in such a way that the
liberal govern government lasts longer
than it would normally have
done now I wonder we've talked a lot
about the trade War and the flaring up
of tensions with Donald Trump there's
been a lot of conversation about who's
going to feel the effects of this trade
War more but do we know who's going to
win and and who's going to lose I think
economists would say pain will be felt
on both sides of the border and
certainly Canadian officials while
trying to negotiate these tariffs
they've been a bit shocked I think to go
to Washington and kind of come out of
meetings not thinking that the Americans
really realize that tariffs will result
in higher prices in the United States
that's particular when when Trump was
talking about tariffs on Energy Canada
is the number four energy exporter 90%
of its oil goes to the United States all
of the oil refineries in the US Midwest
around Chicago Detroit those areas are
finding Canadian Oil so to suddenly add
a tariff to that oil would massively
increase gas prices in the United States
there's now an exemption for certain
products in the current trade dispute
but certainly anytime you add a tariff
you're adding a a tax to American
consumers so there will be inflation on
on both sides of the Border essentially
with the tarff particularly targeting
steel and aluminum we saw Carney go out
and visit steel workers in in Ontario
and those workers are of course Very
terrified okay so the vast majority of
Canada's exports go to the United States
but what does the flip side of that look
like how could people in the US feel the
pain from this I mean part of this is
linked to the Auto industry and this is
why these I think this is why the
Canadians are so amused because the
average Auto made in North America
crosses the Border like 607 times and if
you're going to impose a tariff on the
as yet not fully constructed Auto every
time time it crosses the Border then you
have the the price of a final car in the
States going up
$122,000 in price wow to Caroline's
Point as gas prices begin to jump as the
cost of a new car begins to jump as the
cost of some food stuffs begins to jump
as the cost of beer cans because
aluminium prices have gone through the
roof inflation is going to tick up
pretty quickly and you get the
impression that at least part of the
Canadian approach is just to kind of
wait and watch and kind of come out of
this relatively unscathed because the
Americans just decide okay enough is
enough but how realistic that is I don't
know I mean Trump doesn't sound like the
kind of person who gives up quickly now
Canada I think 23% of Canada's GDP is
comprised of trade and I think the
figure for the states is 1.5% Canadians
need the Americans far more than the
Americans need the Canadians I mean the
US economy is 10 times the size of
Canada's so will it best be a valiant
defensive action because they have they
have a lot more to lose than the than
the Americans do now Carolyn before you
were Canada's bureau chief you were my
bureau chief here in Chicago and covered
the Midwest a lot of which voted for
Trump and as you pointed out there's a
lot of potential impacts to this trade
war that could affect Trump's base so
how might that resonate with voters I
think it's still unclear in his first
term Trump took a lot of trade actions
that really hurt American farmers he
compensated for that by giving them
large amounts of Aid to counteract the
Lost markets on trade so a lot of
farmers kind of came out of those four
years feeling like Trump had their back
even though the policies weren't
particularly beneficial to them this
time around it seems like a lot of trump
voters were upset about inflation a lot
of cattle go back and forth across the
border and tariffs on Canadian beef and
cattle could actually increase beef
prices in the United States beef being a
popular item in the Midwest and in the
same of course with autos and trucks so
I think it's an unfinished question but
the previous Trump term did show that
Trump voters would stick with him even
after facing policies that did not
particularly benefit them
[Music]
Mark Carney was sworn in on Friday as
Canada's new prime minister after a
month of nonstop tariff news from both
sides of the Border a big thank you to
Carolyn David and everyone who's been
covering this trade War blowby blow stay
with us on this feed reuters.com or the
Reuters app to stay up toate if you want
to learn more about the elbows up
protest movements there's a great piece
on reuters.com right now we'll link to
it in the podcast
description the Reuters world news team
includes Kim venel Sharon R Garson Jonah
green David Spencer Gail Issa and of
course me Christopher walljasper our
senior producers are Tara Oaks and
Carmel crims lilita ketzer is our
executive producer engineering sound
design and music composition by Josh
summer we'll be back on Monday with our
daily headline show to make sure you
never miss an episode follow along on
your favorite podcast player or download
the Reuters app
[Music]
