today Donald Trump turns his Focus to
the war in Ukraine we're just one month
into 2025 but inflation has reared its
ugly head and India's prime minister
heads to the White
[Music]
House it's Thursday February 13th this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tor Oaks in Liverpool and I'm
Christopher walljasper in
Chicago first to some breaking news a
car has driven into a group of people in
the German city of Munich the billt
newspaper reports that 15 people were
injured the Munich security conference
is set to start tomorrow and US vice
president JD Vance and Ukrainian
President Vladimir zelinski are arriving
later today more on this breaking story
on rus.com and the Rus
[Music]
app US president Donald Trump had a busy
day working the phones yesterday
speaking by phone to both Russian
President Vladimir Putin and separately
Ukrainian president vomir zalinski about
ending the war in Ukraine peace I think
President Putin wants peace and
president zalinski wants peace and I
want peace I just want to see people
stop getting killed after speaking with
Putin Trump said they had quote agreed
to have their respective teams start
negotiations immediately the Kremlin
says Putin has invited Trump to visit
Moscow in fact we expect that he'll come
here and I'll go there and we're going
to meet also probably in Saudi Arabia
the first now Trump has long said that
he would quickly end the war in Ukraine
without spelling out exactly how defense
secretary Pete hegf delivered the new
Administration
bluntest statement so on approach to the
war returning to Ukraine's pre4 borders
is an unrealistic objective Heth was at
a meeting of Ukraine's Military Allies
at NATO headquarters in Brussels he
rejected the prospect of welcoming keev
into that group Mike col it white is our
news editor at large for the Ukraine war
so Mike what's been the reaction to all
this in Ukraine so far I think it's fair
to say Ukraine is
disappointed it's kind of extraordinary
I think that the United States has given
away arguably its best bargaining chips
with Russia in any future negotiations
and that certainly doesn't strengthen
trump it weakens him and certainly
leaves Ukraine exposed so what does
Ukraine have left as leverage of these
bargaining chips have effectively been
given away for them it does have some
and you can rest assur that President
Vladimir zinski will be making the best
of this it's not all over yet I.E
negotiations haven't even begun let's
not forget it was interesting that
yesterday Scott bessent the US Treasury
secretary was in Kiev to discuss us
access to Ukrainian critical minerals
and rare Earths and zalinski has
deliberately promoted these deposits
large deposits of very valuable minerals
that are used in all sorts of tech
as something that they can use to appeal
to the Americans and as we all know
Trump um sees himself as some kind of
Master of the deal and so he is looking
at these as a way of getting something
back for helping Ukraine in any future
[Music]
negotiations a US judge is giving the
go-ahead to the Trump administration's
buyout program for federal workers the
decision could cut 10 of thousands of
workers offg government payrolls as a
part of sweeping efforts to downsize the
US Civil Service labor unions that
brought the lawsuit didn't immediately
say whether or not they would appeal the
judge's
decision tulsy gabard has been confirmed
as the top us spy the Senate voted
mostly along party lines to confirm
gabard who was once seen as among
Trump's most controversial picks given
her past statements praising us
adversaries and for her lack of
intelligence
experience Israel is mobilizing military
reservists in preparation for a
potential resumption of fighting in Gaza
the move comes after Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu threatened
to end the ceasefire if Hamas fails to
release additional hostages by a
Saturday deadline
[Applause]
Donald Trump roared back into the White
House with a vow to tackle inflation but
faster than expected price increases in
January show just how challenging that's
going to be Dan Burns is our economics
editor so Dan where specifically are we
seeing these price increases so they're
happening across the board in a pretty
broad fashion we saw substantial
increases in the price of groceries food
at home Rose by 1.9% % year-over-year
for instance the price of eggs just on
the month went up more than 15% which is
the largest in more than a decade
gasoline prices went up rents cost of
shelter generally which is proving to be
a sticky point for the effort to bring
inflation lower was also up again so
this was a pretty broad-based increase
in in consumer prices and it's very
early in Trump's term but is there any
indication that his polic icies are
playing a role here it's not there's
there's doesn't seem to be a clear path
of evidence suggesting that what Trump
has done so far is a contributor to the
price increases that we saw through
January there may have been in some
categories some frontloading of demand
for certain items that people fear are
going to be subject to tariffs and uh
they may have tried buying them earlier
and that may have contributed to some
increases but it's not there's not a
real clear picture that that was the
driver instead this looks like some of
what we've seen over the last several
years for the month of January which is
it's a month when companies put through
annual price increases and those price
increases on balance have been larger
than they were before the pandemic there
is an argument to be made that this is a
hump that will get over pretty quickly
but that will be something that uh we
won't know for certainly a few weeks if
not a few months and sticking with
economics this week's eccon World
episode looks at why the FED is standing
Pat on rates spoiler alert it's all
about inflation and why other major
central banks are cutting you can catch
it on the Reuters app or wherever you
listen to your
[Music]
podcasts prime minister Narendra Modi
heads to the White House today bearing
some diplomatic gifts to to ease
emerging tensions between the US and
India trade will be high on the agenda
as Modi Works to keep India out of
Trump's tariff
crosshairs South Asia editor sanjie mlan
joins us to break down what to expect so
India is in a in a quite a precarious
position Trump has been very very
careful about not criticizing Modi but
he has attacked India he has said India
is a big abuser of trade we understand
he's carrying a whole bunch of initia in
terms of things they can do to sort of
lower the Tariff walls here they are
considering sort of cutting back on
custom duties on surgical equipment
Electronics stuff that we India buys
from the US they might be looking at the
us as a source of LG Imports for a
desperately energy Hungary India and
then there is this defense relationship
with with America where they've been
buying a lot of weapons but Trump wants
much more he wants really India to be
scaling up sort of weapon purchase so
there's a lot to play for there's a lot
riding on this motorbikes are an actual
part of this right yeah president Trump
had been in an earlier term harking back
on India's very high tariffs on
Harley-Davidson bikes and they have gone
and sort of brought them down
dramatically it seems like it's a Sy
symbolism of you know this this this
country that is seen as very
protectionist at least in American eyes
but India has its limits also so he has
to balance the demands of make America
great with making India and of course
after last week's military deportation
flight back to India immigration will be
on the agenda too yeah I mean the idea
of you know people being deported on
Military flight and they were chained on
the on the seats handcuffs I mean that
didn't go down too well here they want
to make a distinction to to Trump
between IL legal migration and these
undocumented people he would be trying
impr pressing the so the administration
that you got to make a distinction
between people the highight skilled
Indians who work in different corners of
America you know from doctors to all
these it guys to people in finance to
people in
[Music]
Ai and for today's recommended read I'd
say something lighter but I'm not sure
masses of compacted snow feel that light
when they Smash Into You that's right
it's all about a massive snowball fight
in ja Jaan with 120 teams battling for
victory you can read all about the ice
cold determination it takes to win by
following the link in the Pod
description for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app don't forget to
follow us on your favorite podcast
player we'll be back tomorrow with our
daily headline show
