today Healthcare and women in the
spotlight as Harris and Trump make late
stage campaign stops Native American
voters face High barriers in casting a
ballot and China's carrot and stick
approach to European countries on
electric
[Music]
vehicles it's Friday November 1st this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes and every
weekday I'm Tara Oaks in Liverpool and
I'm Jonah Green in New
York first to the US election and with
just days to go opinion polls point to a
historically close contest between kamla
Harris and Donald Trump with the outcome
of Tuesday's US presidential election
likely to be decided in seven
Battleground States Reuters iOS polling
back in October found the race to be sh
ly divided along gender lines with
Harris leading among women by 12
percentage points and Trump leading
among men by 7% points in these final
days of the vote Harris has been honing
in on comments made by Trump at a
Wisconsin rally well I'm going to do it
whether the women like it or not I'm
going to protect them I'm going to
protect them from migrants coming in he
simply does not respect the freedom of
women or the intelligence of women to
know what's in their own best interest
and make decisions accordingly but we
trust women we trust women Harris also
warned voters on Thursday that Trump and
his allies would scale back Health Care
programs if he wins the White House in
response Trump said he never wanted to
get rid of the program both candidates
of crisscrossing battleground States in
a final Blitz as election day near
highlighting policy differences on
abortion the economy and
immigration and if you want to learn
more about how immigration is factoring
into this race check out our weekend
podcast which comes out
tomorrow there are about 8 million
voting age Native Americans in the US
that's according to a 2022 report by the
Biden Administration but that report
also found that they had the lowest
voter turnout of any ethnic group
surveyed by the Census Bureau Tom Halls
recently visited the Tana Autumn Nation
reservation in Arizona to learn about
the barriers Native Americans face when
voting yeah the people I spoke to
describe the main barriers as uh
isolation lack of Transport poverty is a
big one history of discrimination but I
think the the main thing that was
striking to me was the lack of physical
addresses and this is true people who
live on many reservations around the
United States they don't have street
names they don't have house numbers and
as as a result of especially as a result
of new voting rules in many states that
are meant to cut down on non-citizen
voting they've kind of been caught up in
that they often don't have a way of
showing what their physical address is
so a lot of times they just write a
description in Arizona you can draw a
map on the voter registration form oh
wow but the problem is that makes it
very difficult to match that when you go
to physically in person cast The Ballot
are there other reasons why voter
turnout is so low when I went to this
ballot presentation by this woman April
ignasio there wasn't a lot of
interaction and afterwards I was asking
her about that the point she made was
reservation is pretty much an
information desert there's no local
paper I went to the the supermarket
there's no news stand with newspapers so
what kind of political force might this
group have if voting access were
improved if they decided to vote there
there's a group called the Native
American rights fund they target what
they say is a million potential Native
American voters out there and they're
really quick to point out that Joe Biden
won Arizona by 10,000 votes his
strongest precincts were on native land
Native Americans like the reservation I
went to voted 89% for Joe Biden and
there's been a couple Democrats elected
to the House and Senate from places you
wouldn't expect uh Mary P in Alaska in
particular she is very closely tied to
Native Americans up there and that she
attributes her election to the native
turnout
US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
says the US expects North Korean troops
to enter the fight against Ukraine in
the coming days the top us Diplomat said
there were 10,000 North Korean troops in
Russia including as many as 8,000 in the
KK region it's desperate Putin has been
throwing more and more Russians into a
meat grinder of his own making in
Ukraine now he's turning to North Korean
troops meanwhile Ukraine's President
Vladimir zalinski has criticized what he
called a zero response from allies over
the deployment of North Korean troops he
says a weak reaction will encourage
Russia's Vladimir Putin to beef up the
contingent Elon mus can keep giving away
$1 million checks to registered voters
in Battleground States the Pennsylvania
judge has put on hold a lawsuit filed by
Philadelphia's district attorney while a
Federal Court decides if if it'll take
up the case a decision is not likely
ahead of Tuesday's
election over 150 people are now known
to have died in devastating flash floods
in eastern
Spain Comm Molina is in the town of
godila where buildings and bridges were
washed away by the floods she tells us
she feels lucky to be alive with
Rescuers still searching for many of her
missing Neighbors
and in southern Africa botswana's
president has conceded defeat in the
country's election in a landmark result
which ends nearly six Decades of power
for the Botswana Democratic party Moni
Mai's concession came with the
opposition Coalition umbrella for
Democratic change LED by human rights
lawyer dumo boo set for an empathic
victory
[Music]
[Applause]
striking Boeing workers will vote on
Monday on an improved contract offered
that includes a 38% pay rise over 4
years a larger signing bonus and carries
the endorsement of a union which told
members it had extracted all it could
from the plane maker the latest offer
presented on Thursday comes at a
critical moment for Boeing which this
week announced it would raise up to $24
billion to shore up its battered
finances the White House says President
Joe Biden congratulated the union and
Boeing's leadership on negotiating the
new contract
proposal China is telling its car makers
to hold off on big investments in
European countries that voted to impose
new tariffs on Chinese btvs sources tell
Reuters the Steep import taxes kicked in
this week after negotiations between the
EU and China broke down block countries
are split on the tariffs which can be as
high as 45% % 10 countries approve of
them including France and Italy but
Germany which is Europe's largest auto
maker opposes them our greater China
bureau chief Kevin koliki has more
Chinese officials have been working to
and working unsuccessfully to try to
head off the implementation of EV
tariffs now what you're seeing is the
consequence we know and have reported
that three of the major Chinese e makers
byd and siic which is state run and gie
were told specifically in a meeting with
the ministry of Commerce and China to
pause investment plans in countries that
had backed the tariffs and to direct
future investment to economies and
countries that oppose the tariffs as a
reward so it's carrot and stick is
something that's going to take weeks and
months for us to fully understand saic
which is the number two exporter had
been shot for a site to build EVS in
Europe so that's one to particularly
watch you mentioned this being a
motivational strategy does that signal
that Beijing wants to avoid this going
any further with Europe the US
presidential election is next week the
US market as people realize is
effectively that that door is closed to
Chinese EV makers there is level of
concern that if we have a trump
Administration taking office the
additional tariffs on other Goods will
create pressure on China's exports and
keeping some path open to trade with the
EU even with these higher tariffs is
really important and I think that's what
has informed China's response here they
really have not taken a hard Line This
doesn't look like in any way like a tit
fortat trade War they're trying to
negotiate their way to some settlement
some way of working that leaves the door
open and leaves that market open to a
key
[Music]
industry our recommended read today is
about the use of deep fake rooc calls in
the final days of the US election
officials and States from Arizona to
Vermont are on alert for these fake
audio messages sent directly to home and
mobile phones with experts warning they
are harder to spot than ever because of
advancing generative AI Tech there's a
link to the piece in today's put
description for more on any of the
stories from today head to reuters.com
or the Reuters app to never miss an
episode follow us on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back on Monday
with our daily headline show and make
sure to tune in tomorrow to our weekend
podcast on the national debate over
immigration
