after 15 months of War a ceasefire
between Israel and Hamas in Gaza hours
after the truce was declared Hamas was
back on the streets of Gaza compromised
weakened but back the images beamed
around the world on TVs and social media
show that Hamas has survived its
15-month war with Israel since the
attacks of October 7th
2023 on this weekend episode of Reuters
world news we'll talk to our team and
the Middle East to find out just how
tight hamas's grip on Gaza is and what
its survival signals about the next
phases of a fragile ceas fire I'm your
host Gail
[Music]
Isa nidal Al mugabi is our senior
Palestinian territories correspondent
based in Cairo and Mayan LEL is our
senior correspondent based in Jerusalem
Mayan nidal thank you both for joining
us thank you hi thanks for having us I'd
like to start with those incredible
images that we all saw last weekend as
members of Hamas their faces covered in
balaclavas their green Hamas bands tied
around their heads oversaw the release
of those first October 7th hostages
since the ceasefire deal landed what was
hamas's message what were they trying to
communicate to Israel and to the world
according to like people who spoke to on
the ground and Hamas has sought to send
uh messages to the outside world to the
mediators and to the United States and
America that like um they should have a
role in the day um you know like two in
Gaza when the water stops and also it's
a message to the Palestinians that you
know Hamas is still strong it has
weapons it has a powerful armed wing and
in a way to deter any opponents who
might try to hold protests or take
advantage of the fact that Israeli aial
and and ground offensive has weakened
you know like the group's military
capabilities and Mayan it's a scene that
I'm sure Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu might have wanted to avoid
having beamed all over the world how
were those scenes of that hostage
release received in Israel Israel was
very much focused on the hostages
themselves they've been waiting to see
these uh uh images of uh hostages return
safely back to Israel but of course the
presence of Hamas was noted in Israel
that Escape anyone's attention no one is
happy to see Hamas back on the streets
and indeed one of Israel's goals of war
was to end hamas's rule of Gaza not not
only that Israel says it retains its
right to go back to war in Gaza in order
to make sure that this doesn't happen so
I think that these images highlighted
one of the biggest obstacles or biggest
weaknesses of the ceasefire deal that
was struck because they've left this
question of post War Gaza the
administration of Gaza they left it to
latest stages putting off one of the
trickiest uh issues that the sides are
going to have to sort out one way or the
other what is the current status of
Hamas what can they still do militarily
and how do they stand politically in
terms of their involvement with civilian
life Hamas has spread and deployed uh
the police forces all across Gaza Strip
in a show of force they held like a
military parade of their police and
interior Ministry
Security Services in the heart of Gaza
City and returned to the uh to the main
road like near the crossings to oversee
and secure the routs for hundreds of a
trucks you know coming into Gaza we have
information both from Hamas and from the
United Nations that since the ceasefire
there has been no reports of of lootings
during the war half of the trucks you
know coming into into Gaza and meant to
be distributed to the needy families had
been jacked but uh never since you know
the ceasefire and the Hamas deployment
in the streets so in one way or another
Hamas is back in the streets trying to
say that they are still standing and
that they are cannot be P passed or
overruled but in the same time as as
Mayan said you know this poses uh a
threat and a challenge to the uh like
further negotiations because we know
that this agreement is a phased
agreement at the time of recording this
podcast there had been some reports of
lootings in an area outside of hamas's
control Beyond those reports Mayan given
that this war happened for the purpose
of rooting out Hamas and they're still
there where can we go next in the
ceasefire phase one is in train but
what's Phase 2 going to look like if you
read the Israeli document that was
published that sort of sums up this the
ceasefire deal that was greenlighted by
the Israeli government there's a lot of
pages about phase one and about one
sentence about phase two
so Israel hasn't really come out and
said who it envisions running God
they're not saying it publicly Israel is
only said what it won't accept it won't
accept Hamas running Gaza and it won't
accept the Western back Palestinian
Authority running Gaza as long as it
encourages violence against Israelis
Israel said more about what it rejects
yes and less about how it sees Gaza
being run I mean there's ideas there's
ideas right of nidal of the emir
taking part of Egyptian you know all
these kind of ideas of some kind of pan
Arab Force but don't forget my end that
during the War uh Israel has tried some
you know like some options uh like uh
the Clans yeah to have some sort of
local leaders yeah receiving the aid and
managing the population but Hamas has
made it clear to those you know like
hits of Clans that anyone who would
cooperate with the Israeli Army would be
seen as a collaborator which which means
that they can face death and that pilot
project let's say uh failed and actually
some Israeli leaders admitted that they
have failed to create an alternative to
Hamas inside inside Gaza which is not a
surprise because Hamas would not
tolerate any kind of uh uh like an
alternative entity that is not coming
through its uh its own um you know
decision I think the the question
correct me if I'm wrongly doubt but the
question is also whether Hamas would be
willing to have some kind of
Representatives that aren't Hamas by
name but are Hamas by nature in Gaza
because that could be maybe one of the
like you know like a cosmetic solution
yeah that might allow the S proceed so
Mayan I think you're talking about the
two main factions Hamas and president
Mahmud abbas's fat dominated Palestinian
Authority possibly coming together after
20 years of infighting to form some kind
of power sharing committee to run the
Gaza Strip right that that that's the
actually the the uh the Egyptian
proposal the two sides you know like
Hamas and and fat have failed for years
uh to agree on a unified you know
government so the Egyptians proposed a
committee that will be made of 15
nonpartisan officials to run the tasks
in Gaza Strip including running the
crossings with Israel Hamas and fat both
welcomed the IDE idea but while Hamas
has said publicly it has approved the
idea and the proposal and is willing to
implement fat has not yet endorsed the
committee in some part fat believes that
Hamas has to hand over all the
responsibilities in Gaza without any
condition some fat leaders said that
they will not serve as a shield for
Hamas M if they are honest about
uh leaving power they should hand over
the powers to the Palestinian Authority
but it is not uh you know like winning
the liking of of Hamas so far which so
far is determined to have a role LSA in
the day to in Gaza Israel has
categorically ruled out working with
Hamas they say it's not an option and
that they don't trust the Palestinian
Authority either so therefore who would
Israel work with well that's exact the
problem Israel won't really say I mean I
think they're hoping for some kind of
regional force in place during some kind
of transition period basically working
with the with the UN working with any uh
what Israel terms moderate Arab states
who are willing to pitch in and help
those those will be accepted by Israel
so let's have a look at those options
there is a plan floated by the United
Arab Emirates discussed with Israel in
the US that the UAE participate in a
sort of provisional administration of
postwar Gaza until the reformed
Palestinian Authority can take over and
of course there's the Egyptian proposal
the power sharing committee that we've
already touched on Mayan do you think
there's any chance that Israel could get
on board with a Hamas fata Coalition no
not if Hamas is named not if Hamas is
named as Hamas I think a lot a lot also
depends on what Donald Trump wants and I
think that they will have to find ways
to uh square a Circle and to live with
things that they're unwilling to accept
and they might use a lot of semantics
and a lot of cosmetics in order to get
through a transitional phase I don't
think it's clear what Trump wants it's
clear Trump wanted the first phase of
the deal which is six weeks and in which
Israel is supposed to get 33 hostages
back and Aid flows into Gaza and Israeli
forces partially withdraw but beyond
that whether we will see a transitional
phase and the complete end to the war
and Gaza being rebuilt that's a question
that remains to be seen well let's talk
about the new US president for a minute
we know that his National Security
adviser Mike Waltz has also said that
Hamas is not an option and we know that
this new Administration is focused on
getting a deal signed between Israel and
Saudi Arabia to normalize relations
between those two countries so if that
does happen where would that leave uh
Hamas n that's actually like tricky
question yes we know that Trump wants a
deal between Israel and the Saudi Arabia
but we know also that Saudi Arabia is
calling for two-state solution and for a
Palestinian state so Saudi Arabia will
not make a move forward with the
normalization of Israel as long as there
is a war in uh in Gaza so for the
normalization in a deal with Saudi
Arabia Trump wants calm in at least in
Gaza and and the West Bank which means
that he might think about the Egyptian
proposed
of the nonpartisan committee to run the
The Enclave but he might propose some
other factors to cement this committee
with probably International presence or
International troops that is um you know
because also habas is more likely uh to
accept you know like the Egyptian
proposal and not the UAE uh proposal
Hamas has said clearly that they will
deal with any Force whether Arab were
not Arab who enter Gaza without its
consent as a force of occupation so they
have haven't given a nod to the UAE uh
proposal a spokesperson for the Trump
Camp did not respond to a request for
comment nidal it sounds like you're
saying that Hamas would possibly be
willing to relinquish some control in
order to secure a more lasting peace is
that fair to say that's correct yes
Mayan any sense in Israel that there's
any room for maneuver in terms of NE
negotiating with Hamas whether that's a
compromised version of Hamas or a
cosmetic front I think not not unless
something else happens that draws uh
attention or becomes more important for
instance some kind of some kind of move
on Iran or some kind of uh move in the
direction of a deal with Saudi Arabia if
attention remains focused on Gaza then
then it's a resounding no as far as
Israel is concerned having said that
this is the middle least and uh you know
there are twists and turns everywhere
and surprises all the time but no one
has actually proposed any kind of
election right to let the Palestinian
people decide given the situation at the
moment the priority by all the sides is
for the rebuilding reconstructing
people's lives and reconstructing the
the homes which will take which will
take years there are no schools where
you can put even the ballot people have
rushed to the areas where they were
forced to leave hoping that they can uh
find their houses still standing and
they were forced to go back to the tents
where they have been Sheltering for over
a year because there was no place for
them to live there was no house the
people of Gaza have far more urgent
matters immediate matters to contend
with rather than this all these
questions of postwar Gaza and who will
run Gaza exactly the Israeli government
the Palestinian Authority and the Office
of the President Mahmud Abbas did not
respond to reuter's request for comment
but my add to your point we don't have
any robust polling data on how gazans
feel after these 15 months of War but
what we do know is that The Enclave has
been raised to the ground and according
to the Palestinian health authority
there are almost 50,000 dead nidel how
are gazin feeling about Hamas do they
want them to have a role in their future
of course many Palestinians are now
calling for a unified body to rule them
and for election as Mayan said it's you
know they' have been calling for since
2007 the last election the Palestinians
in Gaza had is 200 you know 5 for the
president and 2006 for the Parliament
and never never since so uh yes uh this
is like a a genuine Demand by uh you
know the Palestinians in Gaza is to hold
election but there is no public protest
we know that Hamas does not tolerate
public protests but there is no protests
on the ground that are calling on Hamas
we've seen some mixture of feelings by
people in some areas but some of the
people in Gaza have taken to the social
media to uh voice their demands for uh
like Hamas to um you like join the the
government with some with some others
that you know Hamas you know should not
rule the Gaza Strip you know alone
Israel in the uh in the two three months
that were in the runup to the ceasefire
deal from October had launched a
particularly heavy offensive in the
northern part of Gaza and it faced there
classic Guerilla Warfare by the Hamas
fighters who managed to inflict on
Israel some of the highest casualties it
had had throughout the war so inside
inside Gaza since it launched the ground
offensive Israel lost a little over 400
soldiers 50 of them alone in the
campaign in Northern Gaza basically
Israel was at risk of being drawn into a
long War of attrition where the gains
the military gains were becoming
increasingly questionable and I think
that's also on Israel's mind about who
it will accept in Gaza and whether it
continues in the second and third phase
of the ceasefire they'll be remembering
that
too last week when we spoke you
mentioned the 600 trucks of of daily Aid
that are needed in Gaza we've already
seen some evidence now in phase one that
Nos and un agencies that are ing the aid
are working with Hamas officials that
they used to work with prior to October
7th to get that Aid in can Gaza be built
without Hamas unless there is an
alternative you can't rebuild Gaza
without without Hamas and according to
our sources the UN says that they are
working with local authorities without
naming them but Hamas officials have
confirmed to me that they are in contact
with the Yuan bodies and and other uh
like a donor uh like parties uh to uh
secure the roots of the uh of the aid
trucks and the warehouses but when it
comes to the delivery of Aid Hamas says
that they do not intervene and that each
of those like relief agencies have their
own programs so without an agreeable or
an agreed upon entity uh to run Gaza
anyone will have no choice but to work
with the existing Hamas government like
they have worked with before the war
they have worked with during the war and
they have been working with with the
same people since the truths
began when Reuters reached out to the UN
a spokesperson from the office for the
coordination of humanitarian Affairs
told us that they engage with local
authorities and all groups to ensure
that Aid can reach those who need it so
we have been seeing some evidence that
Hamas is regrouping we've heard the
previous Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin say that the new recruits have
been steadily replacing the people Hamas
has lost are there any good realistic
prospects here for for moving this
situation forward and and also just what
about the two-state solution is is that
alive still or or not we're just seeing
a ceasefire now between two sides which
are sworn to the each to the destruction
of the other so I mean forget the
two-state solution you've got people in
power in Gaza still who reject it and
people in power in Israel who reject it
so kind of seems pretty far off but
again I think much hinges on Trump and
on the Saudis the Saudis want if not a
Palestinian State they a pathway towards
a Palestinian state so I think before
October 7th attack in 2023 the talks
about the Israel Saudi normalization
were heating up and there are some some
interpretations or analysis of October 7
tag is also an attempt to stop that from
happening I.E to keep the Palestinian
statehood on the agenda on the world's
agenda so I think a lot will depend on
on the incoming US president basically
if it if it if it's up to the sides I
would say that don't expect any progress
anytime soon towards that n yeah I agree
with the mayor much depends on on what
Trump uh next move is especially with
the Saudi Arabia uh because if if Saudi
Arabia agrees to normalization with
Israel Trump and Israel will have to
give Saudi Arabia something in return
and we know that Saudi Arabia is
lobbying for the like a Palestinian like
state to what extent Israel is willing
to cooperate with this uh with this
demand uh that's uh that's you know
that's as yet uh to be uh like to be
seen
[Music]
thanks again to Mayan and nidal for
their time and their
expertise reuter world news is produced
by Sharon R Garson Jonah green David
Spencer Christopher W Jasper and me Gail
Isa our senior producers are Tara Oaks
and Carl cmans our executive producer is
Leela dzer musical composition and sound
design are by Josh
summer we'll be back on Monday with our
daily headline show to make sure you
never miss an episode follow along on
your preferred podcast platform or
download the Reuters app
[Music]
