today Trump meets with Biden at the
White House as Senate Republicans choose
their new leader we have the latest on
Trump's cabinet appointments including
Elon Musk and a Fox News host and how
the pcks are being viewed in Beijing
Plus what's fueling the latest Bitcoin
boom would it surprise you to learn that
the story is also about
Trump it's Wednesday November 13th this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Carmel crims in Dublin and I'm Jonah
Green in New
York president-elect Donald Trump is
tapping Elon Musk to shrink the federal
[Music]
government the billionaire will co-lead
a newly created Department of government
efficiency with former Republican
candidate Vic
ramaswami Trump says they'll slash EXs
regulation and restructure federal
agencies and has signaled that the new
entity will operate outside the confines
of government its acronym do G
references the name of the
cryptocurrency Dogecoin that musk
promotes the move is the latest in a
hiring spree that includes Fox News host
Pete hget Trump says he'll nominate heet
to be Secretary of Defense the
commentator could make good on Trump's
campaign promise to fire generals who he
accuses of pursuing diversity policies
heg said has expressed disdain for those
policies Trump is also expected to tap
Senator Marco Rubio as Secretary of
State and has picked Republican
representative Mike Waltz as National
Security adviser Rubio Waltz and Heth
are all harsh China critics so what does
Beijing make of it all anovi is reuter's
Chief correspondent in China I think
Beijing was bracing for a pretty hawkish
Administration and I think uh they got
that and what we are learning through
our reporting is that China is both
better prepared than it was last time
around for any potential moves by Trump
but at the same time it's also uh in a
weaker position especially when it comes
to the economy so how have they prepared
so China has to a large degree moved to
insulate what has been described by some
Scholars says its Fortress economy to
prepare it to withstand the sort of
external shocks like tariffs or Tech
restrictions Tech export restrictions
they've been replacing for example
software and Hardware in sort of
state-owned Enterprises and government
institutions removing the overseas
software and putting in domestic
software but also investing tremendous
amounts of money in things like for
example domestic chip making but on the
other hand the level of tariffs that
Trump has threaten at the campaign on
the campaign Trail is higher than
anything that has been imposed on them
so so far which in China's economy is
still very much reliant on on exports so
any any kind of tariffs even slightly
lower than what Trump is likely to
impose would prove a significant shock
to the system here in Beijing Rubio is
currently under sanction by Beijing over
his stance on Hong Kong's democracy
protests how does that work if he
becomes Secretary of State if he's
confirmed the question sort of becomes
how does China even meet him how do they
hold uh talks and how can they
potentially drop those sanctions without
losing face because that that would be
the key right like not being seen as
caving to to United States right at the
outset so I think those are the
questions that we'll see you know we
don't know how virin is likely to
respond here but those are the questions
that will need to be answered in the
months to
come Trump will meet with President Joe
Biden at the White House today and
before his Oval Office visit he's also
expected to make an appearance on
Capitol Hill to meet with the GOP caucus
over in the Senate the Republicans will
select a new majority leader to replace
Mitch McConnell Trump has yet to endorse
a candidate however he is demanding that
the new leader back his ability to make
Presidential appointments when the
Senate is not in session politics editor
Scott Malone is following the race in
Washington Scott who are the top
contenders Senators John Thun and John
Corin they're longtime stals of the
Senate Republican caucus they have a
long history and a long track record in
the Senate Rick Scott is a relative
newcomer to the Senate and that's
relative in terms of Senate math um he's
been in the job for six years now that's
one term in the Senate compared to seun
and and Corin who've been there for for
20 and really the difference is that
early on in Trump's first term you he
wasn't immediately embraced by the party
and there were times when certainly
McConnell and people like th pushed back
against him to a degree they've pivoted
and now very much do Embrace him but
Scott doesn't have the track record of
having done that you mentioned that
they've pivoted are they agreeing to
Trump's call for a free hand to make
recess appointments all three of them
have indicated that they would be
willing to go along with that to allow
him to set up his administration quickly
when he comes into office Elon Musk and
other high-profile Trump allies have
thrown their support behind
do these kind of public endorsements
pressure Senators to vote in a
particular way this isn't like you know
an open house Speaker election where
everybody has to come to the floor and
declare their allegiances and that means
that you could have Senators who would
go in not vote for Scott not talk about
it publicly and and not get into open
conflict with
Trump meanwhile Senate Democrats are
working to confirm as many new federal
judges nominated by President Biden as
possible before Republicans take control
of the chamber in January Biden has
announced another 30 judicial nominees
who are awaiting Senate confirmation
votes sticking with the courts a federal
judge appointed by Barack Obama has
ruled at a Louisiana law requiring that
the Ten Commandments be displayed in all
Public School classrooms in the state is
unconstitutional the State's Republican
attorney general has vowed to
appeal the judge overseeing Trump's
criminal hush money case has put off
ruling on whether the conviction should
be thrown out on immunity grounds
Justice Juan Maran granted a request by
Manhattan da Alvin Bragg's office to
have until next week to consider how to
approach the case in light of Trump's
looming
inauguration authorities in the southern
Chinese city of Zai have cleared a
memorial at the scene of the deadliest
Mass killing in the country in a decade
on Monday a man Angry with his divorce
settlement rammed his car into a crowd
at a sports center killing 35 people and
injuring dozens the government took
almost a day to announce the death toll
and images and videos of the attack on
social media were censored
[Applause]
over on markets a warning to the Trump
Administration on climate change from
Big energy top LG exporter Shaner energy
and exen mobile CEO Darren Woods are
telling the incoming Administration not
to pull out of the Paris climate
agreement Trump's transition team has
prepared executive orders to withdraw
for a second time from the climate
treaty and if you're interested in
climate change and the economy do check
out this week's episode of my podcast
Reuters econ world it's out later today
and looks at the the economic argument
for curbing consumption for the
environment you can catch it on the
Reuters app or wherever you get your
[Music]
podcasts Bitcoin is nearing
$90,000 in fact it's up about 30% since
November 5th Traders are betting on
Trump's promises to be a crypto
president by lowering regulation and
ushering in a crypto-friendly
congress reporter Hannah Lang has been
looking into what kinds of change es the
industry expects from the new
Administration the crypto industry is
broadly expecting that the Trump
Administration will be more lack on
enforcement and overall take a very
different approach than the current SEC
where they claimed that most crypto
tokens are securities and need to be
registered as such and provide
disclosures to investors the crypto
industry disagrees with that sentiment
so they claim that theyve had difficulty
really lifting crypto into the
mainstream because of some of the guard
rails in place so they're really hoping
for the barriers to entry being lowered
here they're hoping for a general tone
at the top of the administration on
banking crypto companies have had a
difficult time accessing banking
services as us Regulators have expressed
concern about the safety and sadness of
certain Banks whose business models are
heavily reliant on crypto companies as
well as some accounting guidance at the
SEC they're hoping to see go away which
would enable Banks to hold crypto on
behalf of their clients and what are
they hoping to see from the new Congress
there are some people in the industry
that are hopeful that with the
Republican majority in the Senate and
probably the house as well it really
enables legislation to be passed through
reconciliation where you could see a
crypto Bill kind of tacked onto a larger
spending or tax bill that could pass
kind of in a fast-tracked way with a
simple
[Music]
majority and before we go today's
recommended read takes us to Lebanon and
the role it's playing in the Arab
World's art scene Lebanese artists are
using their work as an outlet as
conflict with Israel at home and in Gaza
rages and we meet an artist whose work
is reflection of lebanon's back-to-back
crisis a link to the story is in the Pod
description for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app to never miss an
episode follow us on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back tomorrow
with our daily headline show
