today Palestinian authorities say
hundreds are killed as Israel strikes
Gaza Trump and Putin are set to discuss
the war in Ukraine and control over
Europe's largest nuclear power plant and
two astronauts stranded on the
International Space Station begin their
Journey back to
[Music]
Earth it's Tuesday March 18th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Christopher walljasper in Chicago
and I'm Tara Oaks in
[Music]
Liverpool an ambulance races to the site
of an air strike in Gaza Israel has
pounded The Enclave collapsing a 2mon
ceasefire with Hamas Palestinian Health
authorities say over 300 people have
been killed many of whom were
children Panic at hospitals as injured
GMS are brought in piles of dead bodies
covered in white blood smeared plastic
stacked up on the ground the strikes
were reported across multiple locations
in the strip Hamas has issued a
statement accusing Israel of violating
the truce the Israel military says it
targeted mid-level Hamas commanders and
leadership as well as Hamas
infrastructure they say the offensive
will continue for as long as necessary
and extend beyond air strikes there are
still 59 hostages being held in Gaza
whose fate remains uncertain a White
House spokesperson says Israel consulted
with the Trump Administration before it
carried out the
strikes US president Donald Trump is set
to speak to Russia's Vladimir Putin this
morning about ending the Ukraine war
territorial concessions by Kev are
likely to feature prominently in the
talks as is control of zapia Europe's
largest nuclear power plant Christian L
has been following the story in Kev so
Christian what's happening at zapara on
the ground right now the situation on
the ground is that for some time now
Zaria nuclear power plant has been
controlled by Russia so after Russian
forces pushed through Westward into that
part of Ukraine they took control of the
power plant it's basically been
partially shut down it's not actively
producing power and there are lots of
concerns about the safety of this
nuclear power plant because in essence
there's a war going on around it and
there have been instances where
Munitions have landed on or near to the
nuclear power station and that's caused
real concern by the UN agencies that are
responsible for nuclear safety because
their point is you cannot wage a war
around a nuclear power plant that could
be catastrophic and this is let's
remember in a country that had the
Chernobyl nuclear disaster so there's
real concern about this and I think a
desire to to resolve this situation so
what does Russian control mean at the
plant it doesn't help Russia enormously
because it's not actually functioning
and part of the problem is that a
nuclear power station needs vast quanti
of water for cooling the water is no
longer available because a
dam that created the reservoir that
supplied the water blew up earli in the
war so it's hard to see of any immediate
effective future for the power station
one of the scenarios could be that
Russia actually decides to hand it back
to Ukraine letting the ukrainians take
it back there's no longer a conflict
going on around it that would ease lots
of concerns about nuclear safety and
Ukraine some point in the future could
start using it to supply its electricity
grid what's the Kremlin said about it
the Kremlin hasn't really commented on
zapia at all so their position is we
control it we're trying to keep it safe
they accuse Ukraine actually of creating
risks to it they say that Ukraine fires
on it Ukraine says it's actually the
opposite and Russia is creating the
risks for the zapia power station in
terms of what they want to do and get
out of this the talks with Trump about
the power station we just don't know at
this stage they're keeping their cards
pretty close to their chest
[Music]
a federal judge has given the Trump
Administration a deadline of today he
wants details about plain loads of
Venezuelans who are deported to El
Salvador despite orders not to Trump
claims they are members of the prison
gang Trend aragua which he has
designated as a foreign terrorist
organization Mr Carney would you like
the prim is to show more support to
Canada Canada's prime minister Mark
Carney arriving at Downing Street where
he says he is strengthening ties with
reliable allies and the new leader is
sending a clear message to the us as
tensions rise between the two countries
we've called out those comments they're
disrespectful Carney met with British
and French leaders on his first overseas
visit if you want to know more about
what carne's up against as Canada's new
prime minister
we released an episode over the weekend
that goes into all of it there's a link
in the podcast
[Music]
[Applause]
description Hong Kong shares hit a
three-year Peak on Tuesday with Chinese
electric automaker byd leading the
charge pun intended there comml Grims
has more nice Tara I see what you did
there so byd shares jumped 6% after it
unveiled a new charging system that it
says can charge an EV as fast as it
takes to refuel a regular car this could
be a GameChanger convincing drivers who
aren't willing to make lengthy stops to
go electric and kick off a new
supercharging race it also underlines
how investors are turning positive on
China Chinese government promises to
support consumption and the rise of AI
group deep seek have triggered a big
rally in Chinese stocks with the hang
sang up 23% so far this year easily the
largest of any major
[Music]
Market Butch Wilmore and sunny Williams
are returning home after an 8-day long
Test Flight of the Boeing Starliner
spacecraft turned into being stranded in
space for 9 months due to technical
problems with the Boeing craft the NASA
astronauts have undocked from the
International Space Station and are
expected to splash down off the Florida
coast later today Joey roulette has been
following the mission Butch and sunny
have been on the ISS since June a lot of
people think that they're either
floating out there in space or something
or it's like Sandra Bullock and gravity
where everything is really dire but the
reality is they had their test mission
turned into just like a normal astronaut
day on the ISS and so they've had
company with Russian astronauts Japanese
astronauts and their fellow United
States astronauts as well and they've
been doing research all different types
of experiments and maintenance on the
ISS
and in fact Sunny Williams did I think
two space walks while she was up there
on the ISS um but that doesn't really
negate the fact that it is probably hard
being up there for um on a mission that
you thought would only last eight days I
think the psychological toll that that
would take on anybody would be great uh
but these are veteran uh US Navy test
pilots and Veteran NASA astronauts too
and so when you ask them how they feel
um or how does it feel to be stuck in
space for that long unexpectedly they
say we trained for this Although our
mission was supposed to last 8 days we
prepared for the unexpected that's what
we do we're astronauts so they sound
good they sound like they're doing
healthy and they're doing well so what
happens once they make it back to Earth
so they splash down they'll be
helicoptered over to NASA's Johnson
Space Center and they'll spend several
days there for medical checks NASA
scientists and health officials from the
astronaut office are going to do the
most intense physical they ever gotten
to see how their body has changed while
they were up there on the International
Space
[Music]
Station and for today's recommended read
an exclusive on Intel's new CEO and his
plans lip bhan is considering an
overhaul to the ailing Tech Giants chip
manufacturing methods and its AI
strategies there's a link to story to
find out more in the Pod description for
more on any of the stories from today
check out reuters.com or the Reuters app
don't forget to follow us on your
favorite podcast player we'll be back
tomorrow with our daily headline show
