today South Korea's president faces
impeachment after the martial law
debacle Joe Biden pledges us support for
Africa on the final overseas visit of
his presidency and the AI race is coming
for your dirty
laundry it's Wednesday December 4th this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Carmel km in Dublin and I'm
Christopher walljasper in
Chicago chaotic scenes in
Soul South Korean lawmakers clash with
troops as they try to seize control of
the parliament outside police scuffle
with protesters as helicopters hover
overhead a surprised Declaration of
Martial law by president
plunging the country into
crisis lawmakers defied the move forcing
themselves inside the Parliament
building they unanimously passed a
motion requiring the law to be lifted
forcing Yun into a dramatic about face
the martial law order reversed just
hours after it was
imposed lawmakers are now calling on Yun
to resign or face imminent impeachment
proceedings here with the latest from
Soul is bureau chief Josh Smith Josh Yun
talked about the need to defend South
Korea from nuclear armed North Korea and
pro-north anti-state forces when he
declared this law but in reality it
seemed to be focused on the opposition
the reason why he imposed martial law
saying that they had basically brought
the country to a standstill by blocking
his agenda at the parliament he's been
clashing for some time with the
opposition-led Parliament and while in
the past they had claimed that he was
not referring to domestic critics with
these terms of you know anti-state
forces and pro-north Korean forces in
this case it seemed pretty clear that's
who he was referring to because he did
not in fact cite any threats from the
nuclear armed North what's next now it
appears that Yun will be fighting for
his political life as his move seems to
have United not only the opposition but
some members of his own party who
opposed his move he's now facing an
impeachment effort in Parliament we may
see the results of that in coming days
but unless he steps down preemptively
then we may be looking at a long
political and legal fight here it's been
a long time since something like this
has happened in South Korea it caught
many people off guard while South Korea
does have a history of aor authoritarian
rule in the early and mid 20th century
since the 1980s it hasn't had this kind
of Martial law imposed and so that
really caught a lot of people off guard
and they saw it as kind of a throwback
to a period of the country that a lot of
people fought to move Beyond when they
pushed for more democratic
Norms it's a situation that the US is
watching closely so we are watching the
recent developments in the r with grave
concern Kurt combell us deputy secretary
of state I also wanted just underscore
that we have every hope and expectation
that any political disputes will be
resolved peacefully and in accordance
with the rule of
law Korean stocks fell and the W plunged
to twoyear lows after martial law was
declared markets later stabilized after
the move was reversed they were helped
by suspected Central Bank intervention
and a pledge of unlimited liquidity from
the finance ministry but investors are
now wary about longer term
[Music]
stability political turmoil in France as
well where lawmakers look set to oust
prime minister Michelle barnier today's
no confidence vote is all but certain to
collapse the government and throw France
into deeper political
crisis president-elect Donald Trump says
he'll be traveling to Paris this weekend
to attend the reopening of the notredam
cathedral after it was severely damaged
by fire in
2019 it'll be Trump's first
international trip since winning
reelection but it's unclear if Trump
will meet with any foreign leaders while
in
Paris a second Dropout among Donald
Trump's picks for top Administration
jobs Chad chronister Trump's choice to
lead the Drug Enforcement Administration
has withdrawn from consideration the
Florida Sheriff posted on X that as the
gravity of the job set in he could
concluded that he must withdraw the
Trump transition team has not responded
to a request for
comment in Syria Rebels are advancing
close to the major city of hamama that's
according to Rebels and War monitor the
Syrian Observatory for human rights it
comes on the heels of their sudden
capture of Aleppo last week moves which
are piling pressure on President Bashir
al-assad and his Russian and Iranian
allies China is Banning exports to the
US of critical minerals used for
military applications the move comes
after DC cracked down on China's chip
sector curbing exports to 140 Chinese
companies now this band includes gallium
geranium and intim as well as some forms
of graphite some of these minerals are
used in semiconductors infrared
technology fiber optics cables solar
cells bullets other weaponry and even
electric vehicle batteries and speaking
of electric vehicle batteries that's the
topic of this week's Reuters econ world
show we're looking at China's dominance
of that space and what it means for the
West it's out later today on the Reuters
app reuters.com or wherever you listen
to your
podcasts and you've heard me say it
before Mr President the United States is
all in on Africa US President Joe Biden
on his first trip to subsaharan Africa
speaking to Angola's president jao
Loreno the visit this week is meant to
solidify economic ties with the African
nation even as the Biden Administration
prepares for a transition to Trump's
presidency our White House reporter
Trevor Honeycut is with Biden in Angola
reporting on the president's Legacy on
the continent so this is the president's
final trip and with it he wants to kind
of leave a legacy marker for improving
relations with
Africa at a time when China and Russia
have deep ties across the continent
China especially has been incredibly
strategic in terms of developing these
relationships inviting the heads of
state to China and the image of the
United States in some of these smaller
and lower income countries has also
taken a hit because of the uh close ties
between the US and Israel and so one of
the Biden administration's big
Investments in four years abroad has
been pumping millions of dollars into
this new rail Corridor that they hope by
the end of the decade will stretch from
one end of the continent to the other
we're building railroad lines from
Angola to the PTO libido in Zambia and
the DRC and that will be a major way
that some of the critical minerals that
are produced in Africa are brought out
to the United States
be the first Transcontinental Railroad
in Africa and the biggest American rail
investment outside of America and so
Biden was here to take a look at part of
that project and optimism that even in a
trump Administration that that project
will continue because it muscles away
some of the infrastructure investment
that China wants to do in
Africa if you're still one of those
people who's not quite sure how to use
AI in your daily life there's a tech
company out there that thinks it has an
answer that's the sound of footsteps of
an AI powered humanoid robot named
Neo the robot is wearing a gray jumpsuit
a hoodie pulled over its silver glassy
head and is shuffling around the Oslo
headquarters of a tech company called 1X
we're starting with the simple things
now nothing simple in robotics but uh
the laundry Tiding general cleaning and
everyday kind of household tasks right
onex's CEO burnt borich says a pilot
program is rolling out that will place
these robots in homes and eventually
they'll be able to provide companionship
as well as help around the house and
also be able to have your friends visit
in a different embodied version of uh of
remote presence which I think is be
really exciting to explore in the coming
years 1X is just one of several
companies trying to be the first to
bring an AI robot to Market Tesla CEO
Elon Musk says he expects 10 billion
humanoid robots to be in the world by
2040 including Tesla's bot which he
calls
[Music]
Optimus but before we go a shout out for
our recommend Ed read it's a deep dive
into president-elect Donald Trump's plan
for Ukraine his advisers are floating
proposals to end the Ukraine war that
would seed large parts of the country to
Russia for the foreseeable future that's
according to a reuter's analysis of
their statements and interviews with
several people close to Trump there's a
link to the story in the Pod description
for more on any of the stories today
check out reuters.com or the Reuters app
don't forget to follow us on your
favorite podcast pod player we'll be
back tomorrow with our daily headline
show
