today Trump tightens his grip on
Independent agencies which came first
the inflation or the EG Kenya's plan to
send a million workers abroad annually
plus a possible Leap Forward in Quantum
Computing it's Friday February 21st this
is rotor's world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tara Oaks and
and I'm Christopher wal Jasper in
[Music]
Chicago Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu saying Hamas will pay for
failing to release the body of Hostage
Shiri bibas as agreed Israeli
Specialists say that one of the bodies
handed over yesterday was an
unidentified woman and not bibas whose
two sons and aiel were handed over and
identified Hamas says her remains appear
to have been mixed with other human
remains from the rubble after an Israeli
air strike hit the place she was held in
netanyahu's also instructed the military
to carry out an intensive operation in
the West Bank after explosions on buses
close to Tel
Aviv the US is refusing to co-sponsor a
draft UN resolution that backs Ukraine's
territorial integrity and again demands
Russia withdraw its troops that's
according to three diplomatic sources
the resolution comes on the three-year
anniversary of Russia's invasion of
Ukraine a source tells Reuters that
about 6,000 IRS employees are being
fired in the midst of tax season
meanwhile a federal judge has ruled that
Trump's Administration can continue its
mass firing of federal employees
rejecting a bid by a group of labor
unions it's only been a few short weeks
since the inauguration of President
Donald Trump but a common theme has
emerged and that's Trump testing the
limits of Presidential Power an
executive order this week has tightened
his grip on Independent US government
agencies that oversee elections stock
markets and labor unrest the White House
says the oversight provides much needed
accountability Trevor Honeycut has more
so president Trump is basically telling
these agencies that everything that they
do needs to conform with his policy
priorities his view of the world and
perhaps more importantly his view of
what the law is and in order to do that
he has made it so that these
organizations will have to report in any
substantive changes that they are making
in regulation to the White House for a
preliminary review and within their
agencies they're also going to have to
install a political appointee called a
White House liaison who in theory is
going to be coordinating the activities
of that uh particular agency with the
White House so what are some of the
concerns from his opponents their
concern is that this is legal that's
their contention that Congress has made
certain agencies including the Federal
Election Commission but also the Federal
Communications Commission the National
Labor Relations Board independent for a
reason and so they feel like this is a
huge power grab and that the president
just simply does not have the legal
authority to do this why does the White
House say these changes are needed
though so the White House contends that
these agencies are actually completely
unaccountable to the American people
right they have set their own standards
some of them like the Securities and
Exchange Commission they have their own
judges and so the sense that the White
House has is that these agencies they
need to be doing what the democratically
elected president of the country wants
them to do rather than acting of their
own free will and
valtion US consumers are up in arms over
soaring prices and shortages of eggs due
to bird flu and while inflation remains
sticky higher prices are boosting
Walmart grocery Revenue our Global
industry editor Vanessa oconnell has
been looking into how the high price of
eggs at the world's largest retailer
might be a signal of what lies ahead for
consumers the rising price of eggs has
become a little bit symbolic in terms of
inflation and how you know many
Americans are very concerned about the
prices of everyday items eggs are a
special circumstance it's the Aven flu
bird flow that is causing an egg
shortage and causing prices to shoot up
but Walmart's earnings call we heard the
CFO talk about it a little bit and
Walmart disclosed today that a small
percentage of its Revenue increase came
from higher egg prices groceries are a
huge segment of Walmart sales when he
took office president Trump did vow to
do something about the price of eggs
Donald Trump having imposed already
tariffs on some goods from China those
moves could turn out to be quite
inflationary for a provider like Walmart
which sources its merchandise from all
over the world and Walmart is sort of
Ground Zero for that because it is the
world's biggest retailer and it
represents the average American in many
ways and it Prides itself on having the
lowest prices so we're closely watching
how Big retailers are going to manage
the tariffs that Trump imposes
[Music]
they're lining up by the hundreds at
schools in provincial towns and
Convention halls in big
cities they all want the same thing and
that's to land one of the million jobs
that the Kenyan government aims to fill
over the next year in one of its most
ambitious employment initiatives ever
but there's a catch the jobs aren't in
Kenya Aaron Ross is our Deputy East
Africa bureau chief
Kenya like a lot of other African
countries has a young and rapidly
growing population it has about a
million people who are entering the
workforce each year but it's only able
to secure around 200,000 jobs in the
formal economy so what Kenya is looking
to do is to export a lot of that labor
to richer countries which have very much
the opposite situation where they have
either slowing population growth or or
outright declining populations in
Germany for example which signed a labor
agreement with Kenya last year
economists there estimate that there's
an annual skilled labor shortage of up
to 400,000 people so they really need
labor you know especially in it they
need nurses Engineers Hospitality
workers and those demographic Trends are
only going to accelerate but there's
political backlash at both ends of the
process right yeah so in receiving
countries we're seeing a backlash and
even in Germany which signed this deal
with with Kenya last year and has been a
country that has really looked to boost
legal skilled migration the the snap
election this month is likely to see
gains for the center right party and for
the far right party both of which were
opposed to the 2023 law Kenyans also you
know posed the question of why can't the
government create these jobs here at
home why are we potentially losing
people who could really help us grow our
economy and instead sending them to to
richer countries and if you want to hear
more about how migration is playing into
Germany's upcoming election this weekend
tune in to our special episode it's
available now wherever you get your
podcasts in case you've been preoccupied
with political news this week you might
have missed what's being touted as a
major breakthrough in Quantum Computing
Microsoft says it's developed a new chip
that shows quantum computers could be
available in just years instead of
decades as some have predicted the
company says its Mayana 1 chip is less
prone to errors and could overcome one
of the biggest challenges to making
Quantum technology useful Tech reporter
Steven Nellis is here to break down what
exactly the advancement means what the
debate's really about is how far are we
from using quantum computers to solve
problems that we care about and can make
money off of quantum computers are
interesting because they have these
things called cubits making one cubit is
fairly easy making a whole bunch of them
where you don't have errors that comp
pound throughout the chip and then make
it useless is really really hard that's
basically the name of the game so what
Microsoft has done is use a hybrid
technique between some very exotic stuff
called a superconductor and some not
very exotic stuff from the chip industry
and put it together in a way that they
say is less prone to these errors than
competing chips so what sorts of things
might we see this chip and quantum
computers actually tackle at this point
the process of making something like a a
new battery that can make electric cars
more affordable is kind of like groping
around in the dark the big thing that
quantum computers can do is they can
model all this stuff out digitally in a
very short time and instead of having
you know 10,000 possibilities where
you'll never get the chance to test all
of them and find out what the right one
for a super cheap easy to make
sustainable electric car battery might
be you'll ask the computer to do it and
it will spit out two five 10
possibilities and you'll actually have
time to test
[Music]
them and for today's recommended read uh
a recommended listen actually to this
weekend's special episode of Reuters
world news check back tomorrow for a
conversation on Saudi Arabia's rise to
diplomatic prominence on Ukraine Gaza
and much more for more on any of the
stories from today check out rus.com or
the roters app don't forget to follow us
on your favorite podcast player and
we'll be back on Monday with our daily
headline show
