today the US puts its sanctions threat
on hold as Colombia agrees to
deportation flights Gaza residents start
to return North as Israel reopens
Crossings Republicans assemble in
Florida with how to fund Donald Trump's
tax cuts a key issue and aitz survivors
are joined by world leaders to Mark the
80th anniversary of the death Camp's
Liberation it's Monday January
27th this is Ro's world news bringing
you everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Torah Oaks in
Liverpool the US and Colombia have
pulled back from the brink of a trade
war after the White House said the South
American Nation had agreed to accept
military aircraft carrying deported
migrants president Donald Trump had
threatened tariffs and sanctions on
Colombia to punish it for earlier
refusing to accept military flights
carrying
Deportes but in a statement the White
House said Colombia had agreed to accept
the migrants after all and that
Washington would not impose is threat
and penalties Trump has declared illegal
immigration and National Emergency and
imposed a Crackdown since taking office
last Monday he directed the US military
to help with border security issued a
Broadband on a Asylum and took steps to
restrict citizenship for children born
on us soil the use of US military
aircraft to carry out deportation
flights is unusual our andian
correspondent Oliver Griffin has been
following the developments what we know
from over the last few days is that two
previous flights which were had about 80
migrants each did successfully make it
to Guatemala on Friday but we know that
in Mexico president Claudia shinal had
turned away way flights or denied
permission for flights with migrants to
to land and in Brazil the government
says it will complain about the
treatment of migrants that will return
to the country also over the weekend due
to them arriving with in some cases
having been handcuffed amongst other
things Trump has said he's thinking
about imposing 25% duties on imports
from Canada and Mexico on February the
1st to force further action against
illegal immigr and fenel flowing into
the US US officials did not reply to
requests for comment about
[Music]
Brazil tens of thousands of Palestinians
have begun moving along the main roads
leading North in Gaza as Israel opened
roadblocks after the militant group
Hamas agreed to hand over Israeli
hostages before Israel opened the
crossings Trump had this to say and uh
I'd like Egypt to take people and I'd
like Jordan to take people I could I
mean you're talking
about probably a million and a half
people and we just clean out that whole
thing it's you know Trump spoke to
Jordan's King Abdullah an Egyptian
president abdal fat aisi over the
weekend both countries have rejected the
idea as has Hamas to find out more about
hamas's grip on Gaza listen to our
weekend podcast you can find it by
clicking the link in the Pod descript
ion Israel has delayed its troop
withdrawal from Lebanon until February
18th the Lebanese Health Ministry says
Israeli forces killed 22 people in South
Lebanon on Sunday as the original
deadline to pull out passed and
thousands Tred to return from their
border homes in defiance of Israeli
military
orders Witnesses say congales M23 Rebels
have entered the center of the eastern
city of G it comes just hours after
underbed Rebels said they had seized the
city despite the United Nations security
Council demanding an end to the
offensive the recent Advance by the M23
Rebel group has forced thousands in the
drc's mineral Rich East from their
[Music]
homes and an undersea fiber optic cable
between lvia and Sweden was damaged on
Sunday and according to lvia it was
likely the result of external influence
Swedish authorities have boarded a
maltes flagged ships seized in
connection with the incident as part of
its investigation and NATO has deployed
Patrol ships to the
area an AI market route at the hands of
a Chinese discount artificial Intel
model surging popularity for deep seek
wobbled Investor's faith in the
profitability of AI and the sector's
demand for High-Tech chips NASDAQ and
S&P 500 futures slumped while the
Frankfurt listed shares of Nvidia Tesla
Amazon and meta slid in the early
European trading the startup has rolled
out a free assistant it says uses lower
cost chips and less data and it could be
a challenge to the widespread bet that
AI will drive demand along a supply
chain from Chip makers to Data
Centers House Republicans are gathering
for a Retreat this week and their chosen
venue is the Trump National derell
Resort near Miami Florida on the agenda
will be hammering out their legislative
agenda but a big question lingering over
the Gathering will be how to pay for
Trump's tax cuts David Morgan covers
Congress well there seems to be uniform
Republican interest in extending the tax
cuts that Congress enacted in 2017
during Trump's first presiden term but
to do that it costs money and it's a
huge cost item the independent analysts
say that it will cost more than $4
trillion do just to do that part that's
not counting the tax policies that he
pledged on the campaign Trail which
include eliminating taxes for tips and
for overtime and for social security
benefits so is there a debate about how
they might pay for these tax cuts well
the difficult Y is that uh paying
potentially over $6
trillion for tax cuts will require lots
of cuts to programs including social
programs that benefit people's
constituents I spoke to one house
Republican who's concerned that a
proposals to get money out of Medicaid
could cut off funding for hospitals in
his district for example is there a
question of whether they have the votes
for these cuts at all there is a huge
question about whether the cuts will
pass there are some conservatives who
make noises that suggest they may not be
willing to back legislation that cuts
taxes and doesn't have an adequate
number of offsets or the cost of the tax
cuts so there is a the Republican
leaders like speaker Mike Johnson have a
tremendous amount of work ahead of them
trying to get everybody on to the same
page aitz survivors will be joined by
world leaders today to Mark the 80th
anniversary of the liberation of the
Nazi German death camp by Soviet troops
more than 1.1 million people mostly Jews
perished in the gas Chambers or from
starvation cold and disease at aitz
which Nazi Germany set up in occupied
Poland during World War II The
Anniversary will be attended by German
Chancellor Olaf Schultz Britain's King
Charles French president Emanuel Macon
and a host of other world leaders Israel
will be represented by education
Minister yov Kish prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu will not attend
despite assurances from the Polish
government that he could choose to
attend the anniversary without fear of
arrest under an international criminal
Court warrant no Russian officials will
be at the anniversary duee to poor
relations over the war in
[Music]
Ukraine a spokesperson for the aitz
burken now Museum and Memorial has said
there will be no speeches by politicians
and that leaders would instead be
listening to the voices of
survivors it will likely be one of the
last such Gatherings of those who
experiened the Camp's Horrors Yanina
iansa is one of the survivors returning
to aitz to speak at the ceremony in the
courtyard of what was once blocking 11
she was transported to aitz from Warsaw
in a freight train in
1944 and because the moment she got off
the
wagon she says she had a terrible
feeling because as soon as she exited
she was hit by the smell of burning
bodies taking care of children in the
camp she earned rewards like hot milk
soup iansa is one of the lucky prisoners
who survived most of the 1.3 million
people held at aitz died there before
Soviet troops liberated the
[Music]
camp at 94 iansa says she worries about
the future and fears that seeds of
hatred swn in modern society could lead
to another world
[Music]
war and for today's recommended read
were're in fire ravage Los Angeles as
residents there brace for a new problem
rain many of the homes were built before
1979 when asbestos was freely used and
with those houses reduced to Ash the
fear is that the rain will spread toxins
from the fire debris there's a link to
the story in the Pod description for
more on any of the stories from today
check out rs.com or the roers app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player and we'll be back
tomorrow with our daily headline show
