today the global Elite in Davos are
bracing for Trump's speech and what his
campaign against diversity could mean
for business Trump warns local officials
against interfering with his immigration
Crackdown how Syria's new authorities
are using Islamic teachings to train a
fledgling police force plus how the US
president is looking to pay for his tax
cuts using tariffs
it's Thursday January 23rd this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Jonah Green in New York and I'm Tara
Oaks in
[Music]
Liverpool a new fast- spreading Wildfire
north of Los Angeles has exploded to
over 9,000 Acres forcing evacuations for
more than 30,000 people the hu fire is
being fanned by strong winds and dry
brush and it's pressuring firefighters
who have managed to bring two major
fires in the LA area under control in
recent days Matthew van Haagen is the
Hughes Fire public information officer
out here it's more sparsely populated um
however out here um we are dealing with
high winds um which we also saw with the
other fires along with
um a thick fuel bed very receptive fuel
bed and uh steep topography
again the Trump Administration has urged
government employees to inform on each
other in order to root out any attempts
to hide diversity programs the move
comes a day after he pressured the
private sector to join the initiative
and told government employees in offices
administering such programs they would
be placed on paid leave business and
world leaders are scram Ling to keep
Pace with Trump's early actions and
we'll be watching his video address at
the world economic Forum in Davos later
today our executive producer Leela decer
is there this is definitely the event
everyone has been waiting for it's
actually quite late here it's about 5:30
this afternoon but I know many many many
world leaders and Business Leaders will
be really interested in it finnally
though Trump Shadow has loomed over this
event the entire time how exactly has
that manifested we have one uh Banker
tell us that they've set up a war room
to deal with the flurry of information
that's coming in but I think by far the
biggest impact we've seen um and the one
that's had the most sort of like
reverberations is the uh roll backs on
Dei or diversity equity and inclusion
the we has always had uh gender parity
uh better representation as part of its
goals um androll backs against Dei uh go
against that very grain
what a company is going to do are they
going to do what he says there were
definitely people who believe in better
representation believe in gender parity
have been pushing their companies to do
that but they said Dei had almost become
like ticking the Box uh we had some very
important uh advocates for better uh
diversity in the workplace saying the
words were causing problems so they were
searching for new words um and then we
had tech companies who face a real issue
here they've got contracts with the us
um Trump has said he's going to um
remove those one of our reporters spoke
to three Tech Executives he said what
they would probably do is they would
keep the initiatives but call them a
different
[Music]
name Mexican authorities have begun
constructing giant tent shelters in the
city of suad varez they're preparing for
a possible influx of Mex an deported
under Trump's promised Mass
deportations interior Minister Rosa
isella Rodriguez says the government
will be ready as Mexico prepares Trump
is sending a warning to officials in the
US on Wednesday the administration
directed Federal prosecutors to
criminally investigate state and local
officials who attempt to resist its
immigration enforcement efforts that's
according to into a memo to justice
department staff seen by Reuters Sarah
Lynch covers the doj so the the the memo
that came out this week is an escalation
I would say of sort of the sanctuary
City policies that we saw in the first
uh Trump Administration the first Trump
Administration they primarily used a
kind of carrot and stick approach by
withholding grant money that cities
vitally need and rely upon if they
wouldn't cooperate and provide
information about anybody who they
picked up for a possible crime who might
be here in the country illegally and if
they refus to provide that information
then in turn they would be refused
access to grant money this time around
they're saying to all the federal
prosecutors across the United States if
if we encounter instances where local
Police or Sheriffs or district attorneys
or whoever um if they refuse to provide
information that we need in order to
determine who is in the country
illegally and has been accused of a
crime we authorize you and we in fact
order you to to pursue investigations
into those individuals for obstructing
the federal process which is carrying
out the immigration laws of the
[Music]
[Applause]
country during the campaign president
Trump promised sweeping tariffs on China
Canada and Mexico on day one but as
industries from oil and gas to
automakers and even food companies brace
for these new tariffs the Trump
Administration is now positioning his
sweeping approach to international trade
as a way to pay for extending billions
of dollars in tax cuts our White House
reporter Jared Renshaw has been looking
into those claims they want to extend
about $4 trillion worth of tax cuts and
Trump has signaled that he kind of wants
to redefine what tariffs are in
Washington and kind of use them like we
do corporate taxes income taxes raise
them to generate Revenue to pay for
government programs or in this case pay
for a permanent extension of his 2017
tax cuts and who actually pays for
tariffs Studies have shown there's
typically two outcomes one is consumers
pay more because they're charged more or
companies taking less profit so what's
been the reaction to this proposal among
lawmakers that's where it gets
complicated not every Republican
lawmaker is really keen on tariffs some
have Industries they want to protect or
you know middle income low-income
Americans in their District that they
don't want to be heard so there is not
consensus around the The Bold and Broad
tariff that Trump uh wants to
deploy Syria's new authorities are
racing to fill a security vacuum after
dismantling ousted president Bashar
al-assad's notoriously corrupt and
brutal security forces and our reporting
has shown that they're using Islamic
teachings to train a fledgling police
force a move officers say aims to
instill a sense of morality Amina Ismael
joins us with more they put together an
emergency plan which includes strategies
like importing police officers who
served in the north uh in areas
basically where they ruled in the past
and there's a massive shortage in
Personnel of course um so their strategy
is to reappoint defectors from Assad's
interior Ministry and Recruit new
policemen what has your reporting shown
about this use of Islamic teachings in
police training we have spoken to many
police officers in Damascus and what
they have told us that they are
incorporating Islamic teachings into
their police training but they they have
also emphasized that their goal is not
to impose Islamic law on the general
population
and their aim is to instill a sense of
morality and ethical behavior in the
police force they said that they believe
that understanding religious matters is
crucial for recruits to act justly but
they did not elaborate much on the
details of what exactly they'll be
teaching people so what are the concerns
within Syria about this new approach um
the worries are more about how big a
role Islam might play in Syria's
Constitution and also there are fears
that putting religion at the center of
policing May alienate the Cosmopolitan
population and minorities who are not
interested in religious law there's also
a fear of potential discrimination
against those of other faiths the new
authorities have shown pragmatism in the
past backing away from enforcing strict
interpretations of Islamic law which
suggests potential flexibility in their
approach to policing however the the
real test will be how this approach is
implemented in practice considering
Syria's diversity and the need to
maintain stability and earn trust across
the
country Thailand has become the first
country in Southeast Asia to hold legal
same-sex weddings and they're aiming to
Mark the occasion with more than a
thousand marriage registrations in a
single day Colorado's top court has
unanimously rules that animals can't
suit to demand their release because
they are not human the decision means
that five elderly African elephants will
have to stay put at the Colorado zoo
after an animal rights group sued on
their
[Music]
behalf and for today's recommended read
an exclusive look at President Vladimir
Putin's growing gr concerns about the
Russian economy sources tell us that
Putin has grown increasingly concerned
about distortions in Russia's wartime
economy just as Donald Trump pushes for
an end to the Ukraine conflict there's a
link for story in today's pod
description and also a link to a special
episode of econ World podcast all about
Russia's wartime economy for more on any
of the stories from today check out
reuters.com or the Reuters app don't
forget to follow us on your faite
podcast player we'll be back tomorrow
with our daily headline show
