today police fail to arrest South
Korea's impeached president what we know
so far about the New Orleans attack and
the Las Vegas explosion which the FBI
says are not linked President Biden is
set to block a nipon steel deal and what
to expect from the Golden
Globes it's Friday January 3rd this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Torah Oaks in
[Music]
Liverpool dozens of police vehicles
moving into the center of soul and
lining up outside the compound to arrest
impeached president Yun sakol but the
attempt failed after a 10 6-hour
standoff when presidential guards and
Military troops prevented them from
getting inside you is under criminal
investigation for Insurrection over his
bid to impose martial law at the start
of December but he's defied the arrest
warrant and hundreds of un supporters
have vowed to block the
[Applause]
arrest some of the protesters carried
stop the steel banners waved American
flags and even sung the star spangle
Banner calling on incoming US president
Donald Trump to help Sol South Korea's
political
[Music]
crisis FBI Deputy assistant director
Christopher ryer of the counterterrorism
division saying the New Orleans driver
who had pledged allegiance to Isis acted
alone this attack except for shamsa
Jabar officials say Jabar drove from
Houston to New Orleans on December 31st
and posted five videos on Facebook on
the morning of the attack in the first
video Jabar explains he originally plan
to harm his family and friends but was
concerned the news headlines would not
focus on the quote war between the
Believers and the disbelievers end quote
but what caused Jabar to become
radicalized remains unknown Michael
Georgie is Middle East breaking news
editor and tells us why Isis may be
regrouping and Why Us intelligent has
warned it could be poised for expansion
from regions like Africa they haven't
claimed the attack claim responsibility
but the guy was flying an Isis flag so
that was what you call a lone wolf
attack and uh those were quite extensive
in the west when Isis was at its prime
and it ruled huge swaths of Iraq and
Syria but now it's steadily making a
comeback are these types of attacks
unusual though there have been attacks
in the US there have been attacks in
Europe one possible flash point for Isis
is Syria
blinkin the US Secretary of State
expressed concerns that Isis would try
to make a comeback in the uncertainty in
Syria after esset was toppled there's a
bit of a tricky situation where Syrian
Kurds who are backed by the United
States are holding all of the Isis
prisoners thousands of people in their
family um now the fate of those courage
is unclear turkey wants to dismantle
them the new ruler of Syria said he'll
take them in the defense Ministry but
it's uncertain and any volatility around
that situation should these prisoners
get out Escape is
worrisome law enforcement officials in
US cities have beefed up security after
the Bourbon Street attack which killed
15 people and after an explosion hours
later outside a Trump Hotel in Las Vegas
the FBI says it has so far found no
definitive link between the two
officials say they've positively
identified the person found dead inside
the Cyber truck that exploded as a US
Army soldier from
Colorado Police say Matthew livelsberger
37 acted alone Las Vegas Metropolitan
Police Department Sheriff Kevin mcmah we
also discovered through the coroner's
office that the individual had sustained
a gunshot wound to the Head prior to the
detonation of the vehicle the vehicle
and location of the explosion have
gained a lot of attention a close
relative of liger said he was a
supporter of president-elect trump
adding that quote he thought Trump was
the greatest thing in the
[Music]
[Applause]
world US President Joe Biden has decided
to officially block nipon Steel's
proposed purchase of us steel according
to a person familiar with the
decision Biden president-elect Donald
Trump and a politically influential
labor union had voiced opposition to the
effort by Japan's top steel maker to
acquire the iconic American firm that
helped build the Empire State Building
and arm Allied Forces in World War II Ki
gabova is our chief correspondent for
Japan Commodities so catcher what does
this mean now for nipon steel of course
it's unpleasant news for their long-term
strategy because they indeed wanted to
add another 20 million tons of steel
capacity per year to their production
globally on another and for nepon steel
shareholders this at some sense in short
term at least could be some good news
because nepon steel was considering to
do new share issue to refinance the cash
they plan to raise for this deal a new
share issue is not always something you
would welcome as as a shareholder and
Japan's a huge investor in the US right
what does this deal being blocked mean
more widely in terms of Japanese us
relations this is a very good question
and there are different different
opinions on this but overall analysts
thinking that this particular situation
will be locked around steel and neon
Steel in particular and they don't
expect that there will be big wide
implication because the deal from the
business perspective it came during the
election time also if we remember just
like a week or two weeks ago there was
Announcement by Soft Bank of uh 100
billion investment uh to the uh US
economy uh so didn't stop sov Bank of
proposing that huge investment to to the
US economy which of course is a sign of
that business should be continuing as
usual the German and French foreign
ministers will later today become the
first top diplomats from the European
Union to visit Syria since Rebels seized
control analena bbuk and Janel B will
meet Ahmed Al Shar the leader of Syria's
new rulers on a one-day
trip meanwhile in Gaza authorities say
Israeli air strikes have killed at least
68 Palestinians across the strip on
Thursday including the head of the
enclaves Hamas control police force and
his Deputy Israel says the deputy was
the head of the Palestinian militant
group Hames security forces in southern
Gaza how Republicans are scheduled to
elect a speaker later today and Mike
Johnson is up for reelection for the top
job while he has the thumbs up from
trump it would only take two defections
to sink his chances given the
Republicans narrow
majority Hollywood's Awards season kicks
off on Sunday at the annual Golden
Globes comedian Nikki Glazer will be
heading the affair for the first time
this year before her debut she sat down
with Reuters to talk boundaries for her
material like there's definitely jokes
that I wanted to make that I had to cut
that
just are are too um you know critical or
too cynical and this is actually this is
not a roast this is a night to celebrate
stuff so I want to set for who might
dominate the evening that we asked our
entertainment reporter Lisa Richwine
well Wicked is one of the big nominees
that's the the musical that was based on
the popular Broadway play that is a huge
hit in theaters it has several
nominations um including for both Ariana
Grande and Cynthia Revo Amelia Perez
which is a a movie on Netflix uh has the
most nominations it is also a musical it
will compete against Wicked in the best
musical and comedy category uh the
Globes do things a little different than
the Oscars where they put the films into
musical or comedy and drama so in the
drama category the leader is the
brutalist which is a movie that stars
Adrien Brody uh as a man who survives
the Holocaust and he comes to uh the
United States to Chase the American
dream is it still like a boozy dinner is
that the format yes the Globes are known
as being more relaxed than the Oscars
it's a dinner there's open bars people
go and get drinks and um you know it
makes it a little more freewheeling than
than what you see at the
[Music]
Oscars and for today's recommended read
a look at late President Jimmy Carter's
Habitat for Humanity Legacy there's a
link to the story in the Pod description
for more on any of the stories from
today check out royers.com or the
Reuters app don't forget to follow us on
your favorite podcast player and we'll
be back on Monday with our daily
headline show
