today Joe Biden pardons his son
Hunter heavy fighting flares up after
years of stalemate in Syria pressure
mounts on Panama to move ahead with a
massive Dam project but residents aren't
happy and how space junk is littering
our
skies it's Monday December 2nd this is
Roy's world news bringing you everything
you need to know from the front lines in
10 minutes every weekday I'm Tara Oaks
in
Liverpool US President Joe Biden says
he's pardoned his son
Hunter he had pledged to stay out of
legal proceedings against the younger
Biden who pleaded guilty to tax
violations and was convicted on Firearms
related charges
the president said in a statement that
no reasonable person who looks at the
facts of Hunter's case can reach any
other conclusion that Hunter was singled
out only because he is my
[Music]
son Russian and Syrian Jets have carried
out air strikes on Rebel held idlib in
Northwestern Syria as Syria's president
Bashar alassad vows to crush the
insurgents who reignited Fighting by
sweeping into the city of Aleppo
MAA ja Bailey is our bureau chief for
Syria Lebanon and Jordan we were
surprised to see a coalition of Fighters
opposed to Syrian president Bashar Al
Assad that include former Al-Qaeda
Fighters and a range of other forces
managed to actually reach Aleppo City
those front lines had been essentially
Frozen for years and there hadn't really
been much movement militarily since you
know 2020 there was a there was a deal
essentially between turkey and and
Russia to keep those front lines Frozen
and so it was really surprising for
everyone to see these Rebels be able to
sweep through and to see essentially the
Syrian Army pull back and not really put
up much much resistance according to the
sources that we' been speaking to on the
ground so what does this mean for
president Assad it's a very difficult
moment for him really because of several
factors in part because for years he had
been hoping that he would be able to
retake that Rebel Enclave in the north
so he wanted to be able to complete his
control over Syrian territory and he's
also under increasing pressure because
he's a member of the pro-iran regional
Network across the region that is
opposed to Israel and Israel for the
last year has been systematically
tripping away at that Network and now
he's facing this this Rebel offensive in
the north what does this mean for The
Wider region we still have a lot of
questions we're scrambling to try to
determine how this fits into the other
dynamics that we're seeing and I was
just speaking to somebody earlier the
Syrian source with very good knowledge
of what's playing out on on the ground
and and closer to the opposition he's
reflecting the kind of broader
perspective among anti- AET syrians of a
lot of Joy essentially to have been able
to push back Ed's forces he's also very
wary and saying that things can change
at any moment if there are Iranian and
Russian and and other pro-assad forces
that come in and support Assad to be
able to push back this offensive then it
will have been a very short-lived moment
for the opposition
[Music]
a fourth night of violence on the
streets of Georgian Capital
toi as massed protesters launch
fireworks at Riot police spraying water
cannon tensions there have been rising
since October's elections but the crisis
has deepened over the last few days
after Thursday's announcement that the
government would freeze EU talks for 4
years
countries negotiating a global treaty to
curb plastic pollution have failed to
reach agreement more than 100 Nations
wanted to cap production but a handful
of oil producers were prepared only to
Target plastic
waste dozens are feared killed after a
stampede during a soccer match in
southeast Guinea local media report that
the Stampede happened after a fight
broke out among Spectators during the
match on Sunday afternoon following a
disputed decision by the
[Music]
referee now over to markets and France's
government is at risk of collapse over a
budget fight with the farri right
National rally party Carl cmans has more
yes it's crunch time in Paris the
national rally is saying it'll likely
back a no confidence Motion in prime
minister Michelle Bar's government
unless there's what they describe as a
last minute Miracle the party wants to
drop some of his budget cuts and they've
given him until today to do so or else
risk them toppling the government the
political drama and concerns about
France's finances are spooking investors
the euro is falling and on the bond
market French borrowing costs have
jumped in fact at one point today French
borrowing costs were actually higher
than Greece's so we'll have to see how
this all plays out and if you're
interested in bonds I talked to a major
player in the bond market Rick reer on
the latest episode of my podcast Reuters
eccon World Rick is the chief investment
officer for fixed income at Black Rock
and we talk all about inflation and the
outlook for prices under president-elect
Donald Trump you can catch that episode
on the Reuters app or wherever you
listen to your
[Music]
podcasts
14,000 ships passed through the Panama
Canal each year a shortcut through the
jungle for Asian Goods Bound for the
US's east coast and Europe but as severe
drought this year means low water and
fewer vessels passing through that's put
greater pressure on Panama to implement
a huge Dam project along the Rio Indio
it would secure fresh water for the
Canal's lock system even as climate
change promises more
uncertainty but there's a catch more
than 2,000 people live farm and fish in
the river valley that would be submerged
by the proposed Dam Mariana paraga
visited one of a towns threatened by the
project it's a $1.6 billion project that
includes the dam and the construction of
our water resera would feed the canal
during dry season so it would secure
more vessel passage during dry season
and also will provide water fresh water
for the people so it is a multi-purpose
Reservoir and it means and it will need
the relocation of hundreds of families
that live surrounding that area so how
are those families that live in the area
planning to adjust to the project the
the project for relocating the people
hasn't started but in general the
situation we have found in ter man as
this community we visited is a situation
of mostly rejection people don't want to
be moved because they want to continue
being farmers and the chances that
they're going to continue being farmers
in another place are very rare the
farmers are making the point that they
don't want to live in slums and they are
using this wording because other
previous relocations had have ended up
in this situation where Farmers cannot
continue being Farmers because they're
relocated to a place these massive
neighborhoods where they need to change
their way of living and they actually
have a very good quality of life if you
visit the communities and see how
they're living there they are not
dependent on subsidies from the
government so that's what they want to
keep trouble is brewing
overhead in the 1200 mil above Earth
thousands of satellites operate along
with around 120 million pieces of
floating
debris multiple parties have now warned
that low earth orbit is becoming
dangerously
overcrowded n bachari writes about the
business of space from Bangalore and is
here to tell us more about the risks if
a communication satellite goes off then
it takes down coms for God knows how
many people here on Earth if it's a
defense satellite in this geopolitical
world we understand what the
implications could be but also and think
and the congestion people fear are
becoming an increasing threat to even
astronauts and that's why the industry
is sitting up and saying you know what
we need to act on it so who's actually
in charge of managing the traffic jam
right now there is no
Central enforcable Space Traffic
management M system and also again
coming back to the geopolitics because
satellites are often dual used which
means they're used for defense as well
as for civilian purposes is also very
tricky and difficult to make all
countries come to terms the United
Nations has had a recent meeting where
they pulled in stakeholders from
government and private Industries to say
what do we do how do we solve for this
and tell us how starlink features here
star link owned by SpaceX it is the
largest satellite they run the largest
satellite constellations operating in
this low earth orbit styling has been
proactive industry experts say that they
have very good anti-collision system
Maneuvers and has engaged with some
space traffic management discussion but
I don't think they have come out
officially to say that hey you know let
us make this formal and that a lot of
Industry players at least the the ones
that I spoke to do think that that would
be crucial simply because they're the
biggest operators they're owned by the
richest man in
[Music]
earth just time now for a recommended
read which today is all about Japanese
sake UNESCO is set to list the ancient
Brewing technique as intangible cultural
heritage this week and one Brewer is
hoping it'll become as popular as Sushi
there's a link to find out more more in
the Pod description and for more on any
of the stories from today check out
rus.com or the Rus app we'll be back
tomorrow with our daily headline show
