[Music]
today a new future for millions of
syrians after a rebel Advance asked
president Bashar
al-assad we speak to our reporters in
Syria and around the world on how this
happened and the uncertainty over what's
next for the region plus the latest
headlines from South Korea and
[Music]
Taiwan it's Monday December 9th this is
R's world news bringing you everything
you need to know from the front lines in
10 minutes every weekday I'm Tara Oaks
in
[Music]
Liverpool a lightning
Advance marking one of the biggest
turning points for the Middle East in
Generations
spearheaded by the rebel group hayat
alar al-sham or HTS a former Al-Qaeda
affiliate the operation seized
Aleppo then in little more than a week
reached Damascus and put an end to five
Decades of Assad family
rule royes kakia was in Damascus as the
rebels
Advanced the week before the rebels
entered the city in the m
was a very scary Silent and tense twak
everybody heard the news they knew they
are very close to theam Mascus but also
they were scared because they didn't
want to witness clashes or maybe mortar
shells that they suffered from during
the years of the war since
2011 you could see the supermarkets
almost empty of products the grocery
stores everywhere they took everything
and put them in their home because they
knew something is going to
happen when the rebels entered Damascus
we only heard gun fire all night and day
on December 8th they entered
approximately at 2:00 a.m. Damascus
time they started to tole statues of
Bashar Assad and his father ha they were
celebrating every
where they issued some information not
to shoot in the air uh not to harm
anyone Assad and his family have fled to
Russia where they've been granted
Asylum with him Gone videos posted
online show syrians strolling through
his former palaces posing for
photographs and some taking furniture
and
ornaments elated but often confused
inmates have been pouring out of jails
holding up their hands to show how many
years they' been in
prison br's Timor rizari is in Damascus
this
morning Fighters and civilians continue
to stream in from other parts of Syria
to see their capital city in a
completely different light many syrians
who were unable to move around the
country to different parts controlled by
different armed groups or the regime or
others are now
here and are are seeing it for
themselves the fall of Damascus was
initially quite chaotic the Syrian Army
essentially took off their fatigues laid
down their weapons and melted back into
society before the rebel forces could
really take proper control of the city
and so you had looting you had uh the
Central Bank partially looted people
also raiding bashad Assad's residence
and the presidential Palace when we
speak to the rebels now they say that
that's coming to an end they are very
keen on implementing a security plan
that sees life return to normal as
quickly as possible then comes the work
of getting institutions to function
again supplying services for the people
the rebels are very keen to show that
they can be a state that they can
transition into one at least and so
that's going to be the test going
forward Syria sat at the center of what
was known as Iran's access of resistance
which goes from tan all the way to
Beirut it is now no longer under the
control control of Bashar Al Assad who
was a player in in that axis and so it's
a seismic shift in the region the road
that tahan used to transport weapons uh
across Iraq and then Syria to hasbalah
in Lebanon is now shut hasbalah itself
is significantly degraded and uh so
you're looking at really a change in in
potentially in the balance of power in
this part of the
world the United States will work with
our partners and the stakeholders in
Syria to help them seize an opportunity
to manage the risk US President Joe
Biden taking stock of this new look
Middle East the White House is also
watching statements from the HTS Rebel
group closely is still designated as a
terrorist group by the US turkey and the
United Nations despite spending years
trying to soften its image to reassure
International governments and minori
groups within Syria Steve Holland is in
Washington DC now Biden does not want to
try to write a blueprint for Syria's
future but if he can do something to
help facilitate peace in Syria that he's
going to try to do that in his remaining
days in office it presents itself some
some difficulties because United States
doesn't necessarily have strong ties
with HTS the main Rebel group or or some
of these other groups that that are
operating inside Syria and have been
fighting Assad for so long so that'll be
a challenge to see if they can open up
some line of communication with these
people and what's going to happen to the
900 US troops that are based in eastern
Syria so far the US decision is to leave
these 900 troops in place at their bases
I wouldn't expect anything to happen to
them quickly there was some question as
to whether the United States might use
these troops to help secure Syrian
stockpiles of chemical weapons we were
told that that's not the case it's more
a case of just maintaining a
geopolitical presence in that violent
part of the world and the Biden
Administration doesn't have that long
left in office what happens when
president-elect Donald Trump takes over
Trump has said that the United States
should stay out of this part of the
world that should leave Syria to work
things out for themselves now it'll be a
challenge for Trump to maintain this
hands-off approach he will have people
around him who will tell him that hey
it's better to engage and try to
maintain a future there that is more in
light of what the United States would
like to see so while he's saying hands
off for now TBD we'll see what
happens over on markets and relatively
calm reactions so far to the overthrow
of a Syrian
regime gold and oil oil prices climbed
modestly on the news but the oil gains
are capped by the weak demand outlook
for
2025 Saudi Arabia's price reductions and
last week's OPEC plus production cut
extension both underscoring weak demand
from
[Music]
China South Korean president Yun sakol
has been banned from foreign travel over
his failed attempt at imposing martial
law after surviving a weekend
impeachment vote in Parliament he faces
growing calls to step
down Taiwan has raised its alert level
saying China has increased its military
presence nearby a senior Taiwan security
official told Reuters that China
currently has nearly 90 Navy and Coast
Guard ships in waters near Taiwan
security sources expect this move comes
ahead of a new round of War
Games us president-elect Donald Trump
has called for an immediate ceasefire
and negotiations between Ukraine and
Russia on his social media platform
treed social that call coming after an
hour-long meeting with Ukrainian
President Vladimir zalinski in Paris and
in a Sunday interview with NBC Trump
vowed to act on his first day in office
to Pardon riers involved in the January
6th 2021 Capital
attack an amended lawsuit filed in
federal court alleges that rat Mogul
Jay-Z raped a 13-year-old girl along
with sha Diddy Combs during a party in
2000 Jay-Z has denied the allegations on
social media calling the lawsuit a quote
blackmail attempt by the plaintiff's
lawyer lawyers for Jay-Z did not
immediately respond to a request for
[Music]
comment for today's recommended read a
story about how this year will be the
world's hottest since records began
and according to scientists the
extraordinarily high temperatures are
expected to last into at least the first
few months of
2025 you can find a link to the story in
today's podcast description for more on
any of the stories from today check out
rs.com or the roers app to never miss an
episode follow us on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back tomorrow
with our daily headline show
