it's nearly 3 years since Russia invaded
Ukraine and on the front lines the
battle grinds
on in Washington DC the reelection of
Donald Trump has ratcheted up
uncertainty over ke's war
effort many ukrainians fear the new US
president will impose peace on terms
favorable to Moscow but even before the
change of power during the final year of
President Joe Biden's Administration
arms shipments to Ukraine were stalled
until his term was nearly
[Music]
over on this special episode we look
into why that happened and the
consequences on the battlefield I'm
Christopher wal Jesper in Chicago
in January our reporters Anastasia
maleno based in keev and Mari Saito in
Berlin traveled to Eastern Ukraine to
understand just how crucial US military
supplies have been to the war
effort so uh Anastasia and I were
traveling to Eastern Ukraine in around
the middle of January so you can imagine
there a lot of Frost and Frozen snow on
the ground it's freezing cold
I mean the weather was awful I think
Anastasia got sick of me complaining
about it uh as a Ukrainian I was also
very cold so I was I definitely agreed
with the complaints but we took a muddy
road to get to the training field where
uh some of the
servicemental that they're currently
using one of the driver and mechanics
that we met on the training field goes
by Coline
Tyson so M13 is an armored personnel
carrier so as Tyson explained to us it
is absolutely instrumental for anything
on the front line so than supplying
Provisions supplying ammunition and most
importantly evacuating the wounded he
stressed to us the importance of speed
in those situations so having these cars
up and running and repairing them as
fast as possible possible is the
priority for Tyson and for his fellow
[Music]
servicemen on the battlefield there are
a lot of mines and they're also a lot of
drones so these cars are big noticeable
targets so they get damaged quite a lot
but these vehicles also really keep the
Infantry men who use them safe you know
because they're dealing with so much
kind of damaged equipment on a day
to-day basis they have become really
ingenious with trying to find fixes that
are fast so they can continue continue
using these vehicles and get the
vehicles back to the front as quickly as
possible it's kind of incredible because
one of the soldiers showed us um a video
that was posted on social media of a
Ukrainian Recovery Unit basically
driving an armored vehicle into a field
that was coming under Fire from the
Russian side so they pull out a chain
and they hook it up to this damaged
vehicle and they're speeding out with
this heavy vehicle into and it just
these kinds of efforts show you just how
important these armored vehicles are how
prized they
are while Ukrainian soldiers at training
facilities are desperate for these
armored vehicles Mari and Anastasia also
visited a repair facility charged with
keeping these valuable transport
Vehicles ready for action the difficulty
with these kinds of things is that we're
working with our colleagues from DC who
are looking at data who are talking to
policy makers to politicians to
Administration officials and then you're
actually like on the ground you know in
eastern Ukraine going to where the
battle is being fought and we were very
interested in talking directly to
mechanics you know about what their
needs were exactly because we actually
saw the damage that they were talking
about and we talked to mechanics who
actually have to wait for spare parts
who could point at a car and say I can't
fix it right now and some of the stories
that they tell you about places like
aiva or the fights that they have been
in the difficult situations that they're
seeing on the front especially now it's
it's very yeah it's it's difficult to
listen to I think truth be told but it's
really important I think to hear
directly from these soldiers about what
they're seeing and what their issues are
yeah exactly it is a completely
different experience just for example
one of the servicemen we were talking to
was fixing a humy that was damaged in
the town of chass
are so we get to this shop of uh the
24th separate mechanized Brigade which
is a a big repair facility where
mechanics and soldiers from this brigade
were fixing up American Humvees
essentially in this big hanger the first
Humvee that we saw in this repair
facility the tires are blown out the
front part of the vehicle was like
mangled I'm not sure if it had driven
over a mine I I think we spoke to one of
the mechanics who were looking at it
yeah he said he wasn't sure whether it
was mine or drone damage but he was
basically telling us how easy it is to
actually damage these cars because
basically if a drone hits even one wheel
and the car can't go any further then a
couple more drones can just finish the
car before it's evacuated so the people
we talked to were actually talking about
the importance of evacuating people
first and foremost but also evacuating
the cars so Tyson and servicemen of the
24th Brigade all emphasized how
important the spare parts and their
Speedy Delivery is to repair these
vehicles quickly and get them up and
running and back to the front
faster back in Washington DC our
national security reporter Aaron Bano
was trying to figure out why it was just
so arduous to get these supplies
promised by us politicians
actually shipped to the front lines what
we found when we did our reporting is
that there were two main issues that
came up for officials inside the Biden
Administration one of which was a
concern mostly held among officials
inside the Pentagon but also some inside
the National Security Council that
whatever the did in terms of weapons
shipments was going to provoke President
Putin and Moscow to retaliating not just
against Ukraine but against US military
personnel based overseas and and Europe
r large the second concern held among
again officials mostly inside the
Pentagon was one of Readiness so did the
US have enough of whichever weapon they
were debating to send on to Ukraine
could the US risk potentially running
out or running low on that weapon the
second piece of this puzzle is one of
logistics so sending weapons in any war
from the US to whichever country we're
talking about is very complicated and so
for really small shipments say of things
like night vision goggles or bullets or
ammunition that process can be pretty
Swift because we have a lot of those
things in our stockpiles and they're
pretty easy to move but when we're
talking about bigger things like tanks
or heavy artillery those kinds of things
just the shipping process in general can
take a long time that's just single
shipments now if you bulk all those
shipments together you're going to get
delays because we can only move so many
weapons at one time but the the key
thing to look at here is that some of
these weapons need to be refurbished and
fixed before they made their way to
Ukraine that also slowed down shipments
and so it was always out of ke A
Narrative of too little too late the key
question for us was if the shipments had
gotten to Ukraine on time would it have
made a difference so what did you find
out what did the White House say about
the speed of these deliveries when we
went to the Biden Administration for
comment about our reporting one senior
Us official rejected the notion that the
US moved too slowly or metered out the
aid over time this person basically said
look without Washington's support
Ukraine would have lost significantly
more ground and Russia would have
advanced far further into Ukraine so
they basically rejected the notion that
slow deliveries was the reason for
Ukraine losing ground now another Us
official did accept our analysis that
things did move too slowly in 2024 and
even went on to say that Jake Sullivan
and the National Security Council had
really pushed the Pentagon to move
faster but again that official noted
that was not the reason why Ukraine lost
ground in 2024 or why they failed to
advance they lay that at ke's feet for
not having the manpow that it needed to
make advances on the battlefield now
officials from the Pentagon and the
Biden White House declined to comment on
the record on reuter's findings now one
thing I found interesting in your
reporting is the use of the word
delivered when talking about these
weapons uh it really seems that there's
not a clear definition for the term this
was one of the more interesting aspects
of our investigation so all the service
branches have some sort of
responsibility for tracking Us weapons
that are sent to Ukraine and some of
them were using spreadsheets some of
them you know were taking notes with pen
and paper and then filling them in
manually on a computer but what we found
is that some of these service branches
in particular the Army and the Navy were
tracking in those systems that shipments
had been delivered to Ukraine when in
fact they hadn't even left or had just
left the warehouses in the US or had
only reached the point of debar inside
Europe well that sounds chaotic it
raises all sorts of questions from nuse
monitoring concerns about where do these
weapons end up once they get inside
Ukraine and how do we make sure that
they're in the right hands to confusion
inside the Pentagon at any given moment
throughout the war about where weapons
were in the shipping pipeline a Us
official familiar with the matter says
the Pentagon has since updated internal
manuals to clarify how service branches
should Define delivered but to this day
it's not clear how broadly that rule has
been implemented or whether it applies
retroactively the Pentagon did not
respond to questions about these data
discrepancies what did those final few
months of 2024 look like for this whole
process we get to November
we get to around election time and only
about half of what the US had promised
from its stockpiles from the
2024 promise had been delivered and
there's a real urgency inside the Biden
Administration to get shipments moving
more quickly The Surge quote unquote the
surge as the Biden Administration dubbed
it was announced in late September and
any official you talk to about this will
say it's because the president president
really wanted to spend all the money he
could in the time he had left to get
Ukraine what it needed he wanted Ukraine
to be able to defend itself through 2025
but it's also clear around this time
that the polls are are closing between
Harris and Trump there's a lot of
concern inside the administration about
the extent to which Trump if he wins
will cut off Aid to Ukraine so there's
urgency on a lot of different fronts and
what we see is the announcement from the
Pentagon in terms of pure dollar amounts
of spending that takes place from
October or the end of September to
January is just an extraordinary uptick
from what the US had announced in the
previous 6 months now it should be noted
that this looked on a graph like a big
uptick but in terms of monthly averages
that the US was spending from October to
January it was the same amount that the
US had been sending
on average monthly average in 2022 and
in
2023 why it was sort of dubbed to Surge
and you see this uptick on the graph is
because there had been so little
spending and shipments in the six months
prior and that's partly because there
had been this massive spending Bill on
Capitol Hill that had stalled out I do
think it's important to note that it's
really unclear at this point in the war
whether any combination of weapon
systems or policy decisions would have
helped ke quote unquote win by this
point there are some officials you talk
to who say if we had front-loaded
everything at the beginning of the war
and given Ukraine all of the best heavy
Weaponry at the beginning then they
would have had more of a chance of
making gains really early in the war and
we'd be at a different place but again
it's just so hard to tell what would
have happened but it is important to
note that these low shipments throughout
2024 did make a real difference on the
ground for keeve they really wanted to
move more quickly they wanted to be at a
better place going into 2025 to be able
to go into potential negotiations with
Russia and to have a little bit more
leverage at that
table now the Ukrainian military
declined to comment and the defense
ministry as well as the president's
office did not respond to requests for
comment on Reuters reporting Trump's
Ukraine Envoy General Keith Kellogg
would not say directly whether the
administration would continue to send
weapons to
Ukraine so Mari Anastasia what's been
the impact of all this on the front
lines so when talking to Tyson we asked
him a similar question basically what
happens when you don't have the spare
parts you need to get these vehicles up
and running and the thing he thought
about first was the evacuation of the
wounded and he told us that there's been
a lot of situations when if they didn't
have the vehicle that was available to
pick up someone who was injured they
would die and there were a lot of
stories like that and it's quite
difficult to talk about and you can look
at cases like you know especially last
spring going into summer where brigades
like Tyson's were waiting for ammunition
and there was another Soldier right that
we spoke to um who was in aiva in
eastern Ukraine which has since been
captured by Russian forces then I was in
dbas last year right as US Congress was
passing the bill sitting in trenches
with these similar kind of soldiers
where they are rationing mortar shells
because they can't fire back because
they don't have enough ammunition gosh
what's the mood you know in a trench or
on a front line when you're acutely
aware of just how little supplies you
have left I think like so for example
beekeeper right that you spoke to
Anastasia this is his call sign
a really interesting uh soldier that we
met in this training field in eastern
Ukraine and he was talking about January
February 2024 and they have Russian
soldiers coming through water pipes to
try and infiltrate behind Ukrainian
lines this kind of harrowing you know
scary scene and they're sitting there
with limited mortar shells exactly right
yeah and then one of the other
servicemen I talked with from the 24th
Brigade Leonid he was saying how he
recently went on a repair Mission closer
to the front line and how the guys there
were exhausted um of course but that
they were holding on because there's no
other choice these people work around
the clock to repair any equipment that
gets to them one of the servicemen in
the 24th Brigade was telling me a story
about how they got Paladin hitzer and
they basically got an order around 7:00
p.m. to have it done by the morning they
never worked on this type of equipment
before but then this group of like five
to six guys managed to to fix it
together with another unit and they said
it was instrumental in repelling a
Russian attack the fact that that
Howitzer made it to the front line in
time meant that ukrainians could
actually repel an attack it was as
simple as
that so despite these efforts to keep
equipment running on the front lines
we've heard a lot about Russia regaining
territ that Ukraine had clawed back
what's that look like in the areas you
visited so we were talking to servicemen
who work with equipment that's getting
evacuated from some of the fiercest
battles going on right now on Ukraine's
Eastern front so you have Russian forces
pushing North of harib city in the
Northeast that's Ukraine's second
largest city they're pushing in har
region in kopans which was a very
important city that you Ukraine had
managed to win back and then in donet
like in dbas chivar uh which is where
the 24th the guys we met are fighting in
the city a sight of one of the fiercest
battles where Russian forces have been
pushing to capture that City on the hill
it's a very important Hilltop City
they've been pushing and pushing there
and advancing on pakros as shelling it
relentlessly so the numbers are not
sufficient to kind of EXP explain the
scale of the the war that's taking place
and the battles that are taking place
but Russian forces are aggressively
pushing forward yeah that's what the
serviceman said too they were saying
that just the amount of Manpower that
Russia is throwing into these battles
just it's difficult to describe given
what we know about Donald Trump's claims
about ending the war how do ukrainians
feel about heading into ceasefire
negotiations given the state of things
on the front lines when I was talking to
some of the servicemen about the
prospect of negotiations just what they
think about the political climate now
they kind of laughed at off and said
don't even ask about that because I mean
these guys had to live with uncertainty
for years now and for them uncertainty
persists every day it's not like it just
entered the equation I mean from day to
day they have to react to what's going
on on a very volatile front line but
they just don't know what will happen
next I think you know as journalists we
kind of go into these places and we ask
that question and I think the very very
real fact of the matter is that these
soldiers are like trying to survive day
to day trying to keep their uh comrades
alive day to day I think there's just a
general sense of fatigue and exhaustion
as Anastasia said earlier it's like
these guys have been living in war in
uncertainty the feeling among them is
whatever the rhetoric and the
discussions are this is their land and
that they have to fight it they have no
[Music]
choice a big thank you to Mari Anastasia
Aaron and their colleague Mike Stone for
reporting on this story and to everyone
covering the conflict at
Reuters the Reuters world news team
includes Kim venel Gail Issa David
Spencer Sharon Garson Jonah green and
myself Christopher walljasper our senior
producers are Tara Oaks and Carmel KMS
Lil gretzer is our executive producer
sound design and music composition by
Josh summer we'll be back on Monday with
our daily headline show to never miss an
episode make sure to follow us on your
favorite podcast player or download the
roter app
