today he's vowed to take on Trump's
trade War Mark Carney is Canada's next
prime minister Trump touts progress with
Ukraine as zalinsky heads to Saudi
Arabia to try and get peace talks back
on track and is Elon Musk toxic for
[Music]
Tesla it's Monday March 10th this is
reuter's world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tara Oaks in the
bookle in first place the next prime
minister of Canada Mark Carney Mark
Carney being confirmed as Justin
Trudeau's successor and becoming leader
of Canada's ruling Liberal Party the
former Central Banker takes over at a
tumultuous time with Canada in the
middle of a trade Hall with the United
States Carney took aim at US president
president Donald Trump during his
victory speech and Canada never ever
will be part of America in any way shape
or form reporter anaa perer has more I
think we're watching a party that was on
the ropes after almost a decade in power
struggle to reimagine itself as it seeks
to hang on to power and it's trying to
portray itself as Canada's best shot at
prevailing in the face of daunting
headwinds and I think what we're going
to see over the next several weeks and
couple of months is Canada deciding what
kind of country it wants to be and who
it wants at the helm and Connie is the
first person who will hold the office
without having been a politician what
challenges will he face as he takes the
Reigns probably the first first will be
a general election sources are saying
that he will likely call one himself
probably within the next couple of weeks
twinned with that at the same time he's
going to have to figure out what to do
with Donald Trump I don't think I can
overate how upset Canadians are by
Trump's threats both of tariffs but more
disturbingly regarding annexing Canada
forcibly and Canada has to decide is it
going to roll out retaliatory tariffs
and if so what does that look like and
when does it happen and this is going to
require a lot more finessing that could
be a challenge for somebody who simply
does not have elected political
experience he's never been elected so
he's still learning as he
[Music]
goes it's a nervy start to the week for
investors with concerns about the health
of a US economy Weighing on markets
here's caral CRI
with more president Trump appears to be
at the center of investor worries he
sidestepped a question in a Fox news
interview on Sunday about whether his
trade tariffs could trigger a US
recession as one analyst put it that's
as good as a yes as far as markets are
concerned the RW has been making the
rounds among Traders and analysts a
Reuters poll found 91% of economists
view the odds of a downturn to have
increased under Trump's shifting trade
policies us immigration agents have
arrested a Palestinian grad student at
Columbia University Mahmud Khalil has
played a prominent role at the college's
Pro Palestinian protests and his arrest
comes As Trump vows a Crackdown on
anti-israel
activists khil has a green card and an
American Wife who's 8 months pregnant
that's according to local news
reports Secretary of State Marco Rubio
said on social media we will be revoking
the and all green cards of Hamas
supporters in America so they can be
deported and Homeland Security say they
arrested him because he led activities
aligned with Hamas neither department
has said khil is accused of giving
material support to Hamas or of any
other crime khil says the protests are
an anti-war movement that includes
Jewish students and groups and they
reject anti-Semitism
allegations you Ukraine's President
Vladimir zilinski is traveling to Saudi
Arabia today zelinsky will meet with
Crown Prince Muhammad bin Salman ahead
of highlevel talks between us and
Ukrainian Representatives on Tuesday
that's set to be the first meeting
between delegates from Ukraine and the
us since a meeting between zalinski and
president Donald Trump devolved into an
argument last month speaking to
reporters on Sunday president Trump says
he expects good results
distant future you can have some pretty
good results coming out of Saudi Arabia
this week hanging over the talks in jeda
is the fate of a minerals deal between
the US and Ukraine well I think they
will sign the minerals deal but we want
them to I want them to want peace pesha
Magid covers Saudi Arabia from Riyad so
pesha what do we expect from this
meeting between zalinski and Muhammad
bin Salman well there's a lot still up
in the air and it seems as though
there's going to be uh two rounds of
meetings so one between zalinski
Muhammad bin Salman another one between
Ukrainian officials and US officials and
jenta and it's likely that there will
probably be discussions of what happened
two weeks ago after the Kur fuffle
between Trump and zalinski discussions
further on the mineral deal discussions
on negotiating a potential peace between
Russia and Ukraine but exactly what
might come out of these meetings is
still up in there so how have Saudi
Arabia and MBS in particular become this
diplomatic Nexus like how does this
benefit the Saudis that's a big question
there are several things that Saudi
could get from it their closeness to the
Trump Administration is something that I
think is very important to them uh
because I think they're hoping to
influence the Trump administration's
policy in the Middle East as well
outside of the Russia Ukraine talks for
Saudi Arabia right now the most
important thing for them is trying to
maintain Regional stability so they can
accomplish their very ambitious economic
transformation project that they pour
billions and billions of dollars into
and in order to do that they do not want
to have any attacks from Iran they don't
want there to be further instability
from gazda I think that facilitating
these talks puts them in a good position
with the Trump Administration but
whether they'll get anything directly
out of this is still to to be known
[Music]
hundreds protesting in Damascus
condemning the ongoing violence in Syria
new leader Ahmed sharah has vowed to
hunt down the perpetrators of the
violence which has pitted loyalists to
ex-president Bashar alassad against the
new islamist rulers a war monitor says
at least a thousand people have already
been killed in what was Assad's Coastal
Heartland
[Music]
Tesla's stock has defied gravity for
years but over the last three months the
EV Company's stock has dropped by nearly
half and yet Tesla's valuation continues
to be far higher than the world's
biggest Auto and Technology firms
reporter Chris Kirkham has been looking
at what's causing investors to wonder if
the part is over there's a couple
concerns from investors one is is musk's
time with the Department of government
efficiency and government cost cutting
is that distracting him from running
Tesla that's one concern and then I
think the other concern is is mus
increasing involvement in politics
tarnishing Tesla's image and Tesla's
reputation among buyers because you've
got this interesting Dynamic where you
know I think historically most Tesla
owners have been more liberal kind of
more environmentally minded consumers
and musk's politics are ly pretty
opposite to that when Donald Trump was
campaigning he was running on a lot of
things that seemed to be in conflict
with Tesla's core EV business so what
was driving the run up in the stock
after the election what a lot of
investors and analysts who were bullish
on the stock there's sort of a feeling
that maybe Elon musk's support of Donald
Trump in the election maybe this could
help Tesla's Ambitions for self-driving
technology and Robo taxis and that's
really where they believe the future
value of Tesla is that they're going to
solve driverless technology and that
this could sort of unlock really a whole
new era of transportation technology and
that this could be a huge multi-trillion
Dollar business potentially like
According to some analyst estimates but
now the fundamentals of Tesla's current
business are kind of coming into focus
and there's some signs that Tesla's
business is is really struggling right
now there have been um some pre deep
declines in sales in markets including
uh Germany and France and this all kind
of comes at the time that that musk is
supporting farri right politics in
Europe we're starting to see a protest
movement rise up against Tesla at Tesla
stores and so I think I think investors
are now starting to say well maybe
Tesla's electric vehicle business
matters more than we thought and maybe
there are some troubles on the horizon
[Music]
our recommended read today looks at what
could be the end of cheap palm oil
production growth has slowed and top
producer Indonesia is pushing more
towards biodiesel used in cooking
cosmetics and cleaning products palm oil
makes up more than half of global
vegetable oil shipments you can find a
link to the story in today's pod
description and for more on any of the
stories from today check out ro.com or
the Reuters app don't forget to follow
us on your favorite podcast player and
we'll be back tomorrow with our daily
headline show
