today Trump selects a new attorney
general pick after Matt Gates drops out
Brazilian police accused the former
president of plotting a coup Spain's
Canary Islands feel the strain of a
surge in migrants as the rest of Europe
pushes back and what the Comcast breakup
means in the battle between cable and
streaming it's Friday November 22nd this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Christopher walljasper in Chicago
and I'm Carmel crims in
Dublin Donald Trump has nominated Pam
Bondi the former top law enforcement
officer in Florida to be attorney
general the president elect wasting no
time replacing his first pick Matt gates
after the embattled former congressman
withdrew from
consideration Gates faced stiff
opposition from Senate Republicans over
allegations about his conduct Bondi who
was the former Attorney General in
Florida will likely have an easier go at
confirmation Gates is the subject of an
Ethics Committee probe into allegations
of having sex with a 17-year-old girl
and illicit drug use he has denied
wrongdoing our us producer Jonah green
caught up with politics editor Scott
Malone on another busy day on the hill
so Scott Gates was always seen as kind
of a long shot given his profile and his
reputation but what exactly went wrong
here well there were a few things one he
went into this process being perhaps not
the the most popular man in the
Congressional Republican caucus you
might recall that last year he had
orchestrated the ouer of Republican
house Speaker Kevin McCarthy that set
off several weeks of Chaos in the House
of Representatives and uh you know
probably cost him some friends on
Capitol Hill the other thing that we
know is that he was the subject of a an
investigation by the bipartisan house
Ethics Committee into some allegations
of sex with a 17-year-old girl and at
the time of his resignation indicated
that they might not release the report
because he was no longer in Congress
that in turn caused a lot of
consternation among Senate Republicans
um some of whom said that they did want
to see that report and that they would
have a hard they could have a hard time
voting or making a decision without
getting access to that
evidence it wasn't an intercontinental
ballistic missile after all but Russia
did fire a new Hypersonic medium-range
ballistic missile at Ukraine President
Vladimir Putin telling Russians in a
televised address that more could follow
and warning that the Ukraine war was
escalating towards a global conflict
the Russian launch follows the US and UK
allowing ke to strike inside Russian
territory with Advanced Western weapons
earlier this
week Israeli officials are criticizing a
decision by the international criminal
court to issue arrest warrants for prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his
former Defense Minister yoa Galant the
court says they're responsible for
murder persecution
and using starvation as a weapon of war
in Gaza here's netanyahu's response in a
video statement the anti-semitic
decision of the international Court in
the ha is a modern dyus trial and it
will end the same way an arrest warrant
has also been issued for Hamas leader
Ibrahim al-masri though Israel says it
killed him in an air strike in July the
ic's 124 member states will be
responsible for enforcing the warrants
Israel and the United States are not
members for more on Israel tune into to
our special episode this weekend we'll
take a look at Jewish settler violence
against Palestinians in the West Bank
the Settler's cause and what we know
about what Donald Trump's policy towards
Israel and The Wider Middle East might
look like that pod drops on
Saturday TV giant Comcast announced this
week that it's carving off some of its
entertainment and news cable networks
Brands like USA networks sci-fi and
oxygen as well as some of its news
channels will be spun off into a new
publicly traded company our
entertainment reporter Don chimi is in
Los Angeles she's been digging into what
the split says about how Legacy cable
companies are trying to adjust to the
streaming age so the industry has
reached an inflection point now the
cable businesses that Comcast is
spinning off continue to make money but
Comcast has decided to hold onto those
entertainment assets that really fuel
the growth of its streaming service
peacock so they're holding on to the
film and television Studios they're
holding on to NBC which has rights to
Big sporting events and news and they're
holding on to Bravo which is another
cable network but it comes with a very
devoted and sizable following so what
does that mean for those of us watching
at home something like 65 million us
households still subscribe to cable
television so those viewers are still
expecting content so there still is a
market for entertainment delivered deals
fashioned way via cable and satellite TV
so this this new company will be focused
on creating programming for that
audience police in Brazil are accusing
former president Jer balcaro and some of
his cabinet Ministers of plotting a coup
to to stay in power after losing the
2022 election the allegations cap a
2-year investigation into events leading
up to riots in the capital by
bolsonaro's supporters in January
2023 the former president has responded
in a post on social media calling
investigators quote creative in how they
conducted the case our Brazil bureau
chief Brad Haynes is in sa Paulo he's
already been stripped of his electoral
rights through 2030 the issue is now his
allies who had been really enthusiastic
after seeing Donald Trump rebound from
his legal wo to be reelected they were
hoping bolai could pull off something
similar and this is going to make it
much more
difficult on the smallest of the Canary
Islands medical workers rush to save
migrants from rickety boats arriving
from West African nations like Mali
Sagal and Morocco
this year has seen a surge in migrants
arriving into Spain's Canary Islands and
those caring for them are feeling the
strain our reporter Joan F visited the
island of
elaro it is a slow paste Little Island
pretty rural it's a mix of a bit green
but it's also volcanic land you could
see goats horses and it's a pretty quiet
Island
but that laidback atmosphere has been
disrupted recently when uh this island
that has a population of 11,400 people
has received so far this year almost
twice its population it's true that most
migrants are pretty quickly transferred
to a larger Island nearby but
nonetheless this has put a lot of
pressure on
elero the uh medical chief of the O
Hospital in the island Lu Gonzalez he's
the one that uh assesses the migrants as
they arrive in their uh boats and he
told us how the stuff were growing
exhausted but also how at the same time
his staff is very committed to providing
as much help as they can to these
newcomers one man we spoke to from Mali
could not give us his name because of
security reasons but he told us how he
had decided to leave his country due to
Rising violence he left his wife behind
in Mali and now he's figuring out what
he can do in
Europe the central Mediterranean is
still the busiest irregular migratory
route into the European Union but
arrivals have decreased significantly
this year compared to the Canary Islands
where they have actually increased 23%
so far this year while overall to the EU
have fallen more than 40% and to Italy
which is the busiest route more than 60%
IR regular migration only represents
between 5 to 10% of all migratory
arrivals to Europe but nonetheless
migration has become a more hotbot
political issue so Spain historically
and with the current government still
has been uh generally speaking quite
welcoming to irregular migrants but at
the same time the current government is
trying to increase the number of
deportation of migrants and is also
trying to strengthen the relationship
with certain West African countries in
an attempt for them to better control
their borders so to reduce the number of
boats that reach places like the Canary
[Music]
Islands and for today's recommended read
a recommended taste from your friends
across the pond pie and mash a favorite
of Cockney natives in East London the
pie used to be filled with eels from the
river THS now it's minc meat or ground
beef to our American friends the mash is
self-explanatory all of it slathered in
parsley liquor sauce delicious and now
there's a campaign to get this dish
special protected status a link to the
story is in the pot description we'll be
back on Monday with our daily headline
show for more on any of the stories from
today check out reuters.com or the
Reuters app and to make sure you never
miss an episode follow on your favorite
podcast player or download the Reuters
app up
