today Trump pledges big tariffs on
Canada Mexico and China as a US judge
tosses the election case against him
Israel and Hezbollah near a ceasefire
deal but can negotiators get the plan
over the Finish Line plus the price of
Thanksgiving dinner as Americans gather
this
week it's Tuesday November 26th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Torah Oaks in Liverpool and I'm
Christopher walljasper in
[Music]
Chicago president-elect Donald Trump is
pledging big tariffs on the United
States three largest trading partners
Canada Mexico and
China adding detail to his campaign
promises that could trigger trade Wars
Trump says till impose a 25% tariff on
imports from Canada and Mexico until
they clamp down on drugs particularly
fenel and migrants crossing the border
it's a move that would appear to violate
a free trade deal Trump has also
outlined an additional 10% tariff above
any additional tariffs on imports from
China Amanda Cooper is our editor for
finance and markets breaking news in
Europe so Amanda do we have any idea
what Trump game plan is here the sense
is that his that has been all along that
his game plan has been a sort of a
negotiating Gambit if you will he
threatens the tariffs starts
negotiations and somehow a a deal
materializes I think what's caught the
market a little by surprise this morning
has been the inclusion of Canada in
terms of countries on which he's likely
to impose tariffs and the scale of the
tariffs on on Mexico so at the minute
it's just a post right but if it were to
happen what are the risks here and for
whom exactly right now it's just a post
and there's likely to be a big
difference between what he says he's
going to do and what he's actually able
to do but investors aren't taking any
chances with this you get tariffs
imposed on anything from car exports to
car parts to luxury goods even to food
and consumer goods it's going to affect
demand for those goods across an entire
range of sectors and of course there's
an impact on on various currencies as
well which is why you're seeing the peso
the Euro the Canadian dollar come under
pressure less ability to export means uh
an impact on those various regions
economies which means an impact on
consumers and on growth and so on so
there's certainly a lot of risk right
now for to say a whole range of
companies sectors and and entire
economies but whether we see those risks
meet everybody's worst fears really
remains to be seen for more on the fenel
trade listen to our special episode on
how the supply chain works there's a
link in today's pod description and for
a look at inflation and the potentially
inflationary impact of the next Trump
presidency tune in to this week's
episode of reuter's econ world it's out
[Music]
tomorrow a US judge has dismissed the
federal criminal case against Trump
accusing him of attempting to overturn
his 2020 election defeat the dismissal
follows prosecutors dropping case as
well as another on his handling of
classified documents prosecutors working
with special counsel Jack Smith cited a
longstanding justice department policy
that sitting presidents should not face
criminal
prosecution Macy's says one of its
employees hid as much as $154 million in
expenses forcing the retailer to delay
announcing its Q3 earnings the
department store says one employee
intentionally made wrong accounting
entry over a 3year period the delay is
bad news for Wall Street which uses the
report to determine the strength of
holiday
shopping in Egypt three bodies have been
recovered from a capsized tourist boat
which sank off the Red Sea Coast on
Monday 13 people are still missing the
Red Sea Governor says preliminary
reports suggest a sudden large wave hit
the boat capsizing it within
minutes in France prosecutors are
seeking the maximum um sentence 20 years
for Dominique pelo the man who
orchestrated the repeated Mass rape of
his then wife jizelle has admitted the
charges and sentencing is expected
around December
20th four Pakistani troops have been
killed in Islam Abad run over by a
convoy of protesters thousands of former
prime minister Imran Khan supporters
marched on the capital demanding his
release and that the current government
step down
a ceasefire deal between Israel and the
armed group Hezbollah in Lebanon could
be close at hand agreement we're pushing
as hard as we can US state department
spokesperson Matthew Miller but
negotiators have been close on the
details before only to have them fall
through often times the very last stages
of an agreement are the most difficult
because the hardest issues are left to
the end that our state department
reporter Humera Pik has been following
the negotiations from Washington DC so
Huma how is this negotiation different
from previous attempts so we've got
Lebanese sources telling us that US
President Joe Biden and French president
Emanuel macron are expected to announce
the ceasefire in Lebanon within a couple
of days but at the same time we have
other us officials also cautioning that
you don't have a deal until you've
nailed down all of the terms do we know
what the terms of the this deal might
look like the exact details are a little
bit elusive but what we know is Israel
and the United States wants a full
implementation of United Nations
security Council resolution
1701 that was passed in 2006 when the
last major war between Israel and
Hezbollah had concluded the whole idea
is Hezbollah pulls back its Fighters
from the Israeli border behind the Lani
River and Lebanese Armed Forces enter
that part of the border and in return
Israel is also obviously going to pull
back behind its borders and will no
longer have any presence in southern
Lebanon that is one of the sticking
points for example there has been
reporting that Israel wants a clause in
the ceasefire agreement that allows it
to go inside Southern Lebanon and strike
hisbah targets whenever it feels like
there is a threat and from the Lebanese
point of you that has seen a violation
of their
sovereignty based on your temperament
and commitment to being productive
members of society I hereby pardon Peach
and
Blossom President Joe Biden taking part
in one of the more bizarre us political
Traditions the pardoning of two turkeys
ahead of Thanksgiving while turkeys
Peach and Blossom are safe from The
Chopping Block millions of turkeys are
headed for Thanksgiving dinners across
the US this Thursday along with
cranberries mashed potatoes and other
traditional holiday fixings Renee
Hickman covers agriculture here in
Chicago and has been looking into the
cost of this year's Thanksgiving meal
it's lower than it's been for the past 2
years the average cost of a 10p person
Gathering is going to be about $58
according to the American Farm Bureau
Federation but it's still almost 20%
higher than Americans paid pre- pandemic
and so the reason is really the price of
the turkey demand for turkey just seems
to be down a lot lower this year so why
is that you know we're not exactly sure
but prices for turkey have been higher
for a few years tracking overall
inflation we talked to a turkey farmer
who said he thinks that people are just
swapping out other meats like brisket or
for that traditional turkey he just has
not gotten those kind of last minute
calls from people he sells to uh looking
for more supplies this year okay so
turkey consumption is down but people
say they're still feeling the pain of
high grocery prices what about the rest
of the plate the other components of the
meal fresh vegetables and whole milk
have fallen on the other hand processed
foods that people like to include in
their Thanksgiving meals like pre-made
dinner rolls or stuffing those have gone
up and Renee do you have a favorite
Thanksgiving side it's got to be
stuffing I like all varieties of
stuffing all right you know what I
forgot about pie it's definitely pie
apple sweet potato I'm from the south so
sweet
[Music]
potato now for today's recommended read
where we take a look at how North Korea
is expanding a key weapons manufacturing
plant that assembles a type of short-
range missile that Russia is using in
Ukraine that's the conclusion of
researchers at a us-based think tank and
it's based on satellite images of a
facility known as the February 11 plant
Moscow and Pyongyang have both denied
that North Korea has sent missiles for
use against Ukraine there's a link to
the story in today's pod description for
more on any of the stories from today
check out reuters.com or the Reuters app
to never miss an episode follow us on
your favorite podcast player we'll be
back tomorrow with our daily headline
show
