today Paris prepares for the reopening
of nadam Cathedral after a devastating
fire and days of political turmoil
healthcare companies grapple with
potential threats to their
Executives plus we sit down with
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin for
an exit
interview it's Friday December 6th this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front line in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm tar Oaks in Liverpool and I'm Jonah
Green in New
[Music]
[Applause]
York a spectacular New Era after a messy
disaster that's what French president
Emanuel Macon is hoping for this weekend
with a grand ceremony for the reopening
of the iconic notam cathedral in Paris
after days of domestic political turmoil
the iconic cathedral's burning shocked
the
world the restoration work after the
fire has taken 5 years and more than
$800 million to
complete it's still unclear what exactly
caused the fire French authorities have
said an electrical fault or a burning
cigarette may have been
responsible the reopening has also
turned into into a political hot ticket
that us president-elect Donald Trump set
to attend Richard lock is our France
bureau chief in Paris the cathedral is
looking quite simply beautiful you have
to remember that 5 and a half years ago
this Blaze ripped a part of the French
Soul apart and there has since then been
the most remarkable renovation project
from the Spire to the stained glass
windows this Cathedral has been
transformed and multiple aists are due
to attend we've already mentioned one
big name how does this position mael on
the world stage during a difficult week
for him President elect Donald Trump is
due to attend other heads of state
royalty have been invited the Elise
Palace has been very close spped on who
will attend we are hearing of the
possibility that Ukrainian president
zalinski may appear the Optics could be
pretty interesting in the ceremony where
will president-elect Donald Trump sit
normally someone who is not a sitting
head of state expect to be towards the
back of the ceremony however it is hard
to imagine that that will be the case in
Donald Trump he's more likely to be
upfront in The prominent Ros of
seating New York police have released
new photos showing the face of the man
suspected of gunning down United Health
executive Brian Thompson in Manhattan
the fatal shooting has sent shock waves
through the Health industry in
particular and now companies are
reassessing the risks for their top
Executives Caroline humer is our US
Health and Pharma editor we've seen
United Health itself pull down pictures
from its website of its top executive
leadership team after the shooting took
place that happened fairly quickly and
today CBS pulled down its executive
leadership team and those companies
aren't talking to us about the security
measures themselves but we've spoken
with a couple of Security Experts and
they say that this move you know
indicates that the companies are
reassessing their risk what was the
healthc care industry's experience with
risk assessment before this shooting so
prior to this a lot of the risk that we
know of in the healthcare industry has
been around Hospital systems and
providers you know in post covid there's
been a lot of ir you've probably seen
reports of metal detectors even in these
institutions but the Security Experts
said that Health insurers themselves
have been aware of this and that they do
provide security physical security for
executives and Security Experts told us
that going forward there could be an
increase in physical security I mean
just looking at social media X there's
obviously a lot of anger at this
industry we don't know yet if that was a
factor in this shooting where we still
don't have a motive but it is clear that
there is something there for Security
Experts to look at and and use as they
assess the potential danger for their
Executives South Korea's ruling party
leader says president yunak Yol needs to
be removed from power for trying to
impose martial law
as the government denies reports that
it's preparing to issue another martial
law
declaration us defense secretary Lloyd
Austin no longer plans to travel to
South Korea after the political upheaval
with one official saying planning had
been underway for a trip in the near
term but it was determined now was not
the appropriate
time thousands of people have fled the
central Syrian city of homs overnight as
Rebel forces seek to push their
lightning offensive against government
forces further south Rebels have already
captured the key cities of Aleppo in the
north and Hammer in the center dealing
successive blows to president Bashar
al-assad nearly 14 years after protests
against him erupted across
Syria the US House of Representatives
has blocked an effort to expedite the
release of an Ethics probe into former
representative Matt Gates the Florida
Republican recently dropped his bid to
become Donald Trump Trump's attorney
general the probe centered on
allegations of sexual misconduct with
the teenage girl and drug
use Trump himself has been busy with
other appointments saying he's
appointing former PayPal Chief Operating
Officer David saaks as his White House
Ai and crypto SAR and he's chosen former
Senator David puru to be ambassador to
China tapping a former politician with
business experience to help steer
relations Riven by Deep mistrust and
trade
tensions Australian police say they're
looking for two people suspected of
deliberately starting a fire at a
Melbourne synagogue that injured one and
caused widespread damage prime minister
Anthony albanes condemned the attack and
said there was no place for
anti-Semitism in
[Music]
Australia the European Union and South
America's Merkur block are expected to
announce this week that they've
finalized a free trade agreement that
took over two decades to negotiate
leaders have touted the Accord as the
world's largest trade and investment
partnership bringing together a market
of more than 700 million people
economists estimate that the deal could
do away with nearly 5 billion dollar of
tariffs annually phased out over several
years but European Farmers have
repeatedly protested against it saying
it'll lead to cheap Imports of South
American Commodities not ably beef which
is not subject to the same green and
food safety standards as in the
EU Anthony blinkin attended his final
NATO meeting as US Secretary of State
this week as he prepares to hand over
the keys to Trump's much thank you for
your time we really appreciate it it's
good to be with you our Deputy foreign
policy editor um PUK sat down with
blinkin for a wide ranging exit
interview in Brussels I think he was
very much cognizant of
the end of his term and I asked him two
very specific Legacy questions one was
about Gaza do you leave the
administration with a clear conscience
that you have done absolutely everything
in your power to Stop The
Killing others will have to judge uh the
legacy of the administration my own
legacy um right now what I'm focused on
is using every minute that I have left
in this job to try to bring an end to
that conflict to try to bring an end to
the suffering of people Anthony blinkin
somehow became the face ofen Joe Biden's
Israel policy and he has faced a lot of
prop Palestinian demonstrators whenever
he was on the hill testifying there were
protesters camped at some point outside
his home they would hold banners calling
him the Butcher of Gaza so it is quite
personal for him it's absolutely
gut-wrenching but what I have to focus
on what we've had to focus on is how do
we bring this to an end most quickly and
most effectively in a way that helps
ensure that October 7th and its hars
never happen again did he express any
concern about what happens to Ukraine
under a trump Administration I mean I
asked him that multiple times I asked
him outright you're aligned on Lebanon
on Gaza are you aligned on Ukraine he
wouldn't answer my intent and my focus
as I said is to make sure that I hand
off the strongest possible hand for them
to play uh and I think that's in their
in the interest of the country and uh in
the interest of the administration I
want to make sure that my successor um
Senator Rubio is able to hit the ground
running because the world doesn't stop
just because we're in the midst of a
political transition
[Music]
it's Friday so today our recommendation
is a nod to our weekend episode of this
ber pod take a listen tomorrow to our
special coverage on the present and
future risks to Nato as Europe eyes
Russian aggression with trepidation
it'll be out tomorrow wherever you get
your podcasts for more on any of the
stories from today check out rus.com or
the Reuters app and to never miss an
episode follow us on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back on Monday
with our daily headline show
