today Europe goes into damage control
mode on Ukraine after that disastrous
over office meet the countdown to us
tariffs going into effect on Canada and
Mexico and a Norah triumphs at a
politically muted
[Music]
Oscars it's Monday March 3rd this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tor Oaks in
a shouting match that rocked Global
diplomacy you're gambling with World War
II US president Donald Trump and vice
president JD B accusing Ukraine's
President Vladimir zelinski of not being
grateful for America's support and
threatening to pull up you got to be
more thankful after that heated Oval
Office meeting a visibly shaken ziny was
welcomed to London by British prime
minister K sta at a weekend Summit
European leaders offering a strong
support to Ukraine agreeing to spend
more on defense to show Trump the
continent can protect itself Stormer
saying that Britain Ukraine France and
some others would form a coalition of
the willing and draw up a peace plan to
take to Trump Europe must do the heavy
listing but to support peace in our
continent and to succeed this effort
must have strong us backing leaders have
not provided details of their plan
reuter's European Affairs editor Andrew
Gray is in Brussels what they're trying
to do is on the one hand say to the
Americans we get it we're willing to do
more we're going to significantly
increase our defense spending we the
Europeans will take the big risks we'll
put the boots on the ground but we need
some kind of umbrella some kind of
support from you partly just to make
this whole thing work and also as a back
stop to tell the Russians don't mess
with us because if you do you're messing
with America as well and you have Elon
Musk tweeting that the US should leave
the UN and NATO I mean it seems like
it's a pretty precarious time for the
West I think it is precarious I mean um
Kier starmer said in his remarks today
that we're at Crossroads in history and
uh that doesn't seem like an
overstatement to be honest I think the
Europeans feel they have to Trav
nobody can be sure how this is all going
to play out but I feel like they feel
they have to give it their absolute best
shot and see if they can bring the Trump
Administration along and keep them
engaged in Europe and Ukraine and
European security because the
alternative is pretty frightening to be
honest Palestinians and jabalia loading
food onto donkey drawn carts and
bicycles as Israel blocks the entry of
Aid trucks into
Gaza the aid block comes as the
ceasefire standoff escalates Israel says
hostages must be released for the
ceasefire to continue and has agreed a
temporary extension for the Ramadan and
Passover Seasons Hamas has rejected the
42-day extension and says it wants to
move to the scheduled Phase 2 and
negotiations for a permanent end to the
war Andrew Cuomo is running for mayor of
New York the former Governor resigned in
disgrace just over 3 years ago over
sexual harassment claims as well as
misleading the public over covid-19
debts Cuomo denies those
allegations the Vatican says Pope
Francis is stable and no longer needs
mechanical ventilation to breathe the
88-year-old pontiff has been in hospital
for more than 2 weeks battling double
pneumonia I look forward to uh sitting
down with his majesty tomorrow Canadian
PR Minister Justin Trudeau and King
Charles sit down for talks in London
today with sovereignty high on the
agenda after Trump suggested making
Canada the 51st US state the outgoing
prime minister said last month that
Trump's suggestion to absorb Canada is
quote a real
[Music]
thing March has started with a bang for
crypto funds after president Trump once
again talked up plans for a strategic
crypto Reserve Carl Grims tells us more
Trump announced in a social media post
the names of the five digital assets he
expects to include in the Strategic
reserve and they are Bitcoin ether xrp
Solana and cardano the post has helped
the crypto Market recoup some of the
losses it clocked up last month but a
lot of things are still unclear like how
much crypto the government would
actually buy to create this fund and how
those Pur purchases would be funded some
analysts have suggested the government
could use crypto seized in criminal
cases to create the fund but that
wouldn't create new demand for digital
assets Trump is hosting the first White
House crypto Summit on Friday so maybe
we'll get more details then and if
you're interested in volatile markets
check out the latest episode of Reuters
econ world it's all about your morning
cup of coffee and why it's set to get
more expensive you can catch the show on
the Reuters app or wherever you listen
to your podcasts
[Music]
president Trump has promised to hit
Canada and Mexico with 25% tariffs
across the board starting Tuesday as
well as adding an extra 10% Duty on
Chinese Imports the White House says
it's an effort to curb fentanyl flows
into the us we caught up with our White
House reporter Trevor Honeycut who is
covering Trump at his maralago estate in
Florida we know that Canadian Mexican
and Chinese officials have have been in
touch with the White House about these
proposed tariffs um and they've been
working behind the scenes to get them
installed get them delayed or get them
put off entirely and so what we're going
to see this coming week is whether those
negotiations have have borne fruit yet
Commerce Secretary Howard lutnick
indicated on Sunday that there might be
some wiggle room on exactly how high
those tariffs are going to go and so
that 25% number that's been floated by
Trump himself might not actually go into
effect this week so if this goes into
effect American consumers will notice
pretty quickly right that's right and
that certainly companies that are trying
to figure out how to make cars and all
kinds of other things are going to
notice these impacts pretty quickly and
then we also still have kind of looming
over markets right now the the question
of how many more tariffs are going to
come after this initial round on Canada
Mexico and China president Trump has
indicated that we're going to see auto
tariffs as soon as April 2nd as well as
what he calls reciprocal tariffs on all
kinds of countries around the world uh
at that same date and he's also flagged
additional tariffs ON Semiconductor
chips and pharmaceuticals and so that's
going to be an area of focus going
forward as will this question of re
retaliation what do all these countries
do in response and so that's another
area that we're going to have to
watch at the osar it was a Nora that
stole the headlines winning five Academy
Awards including the big one best
picture it's director sha Baker made
history by winning four Awards and
anora's 25-year-old star Mikey Madison W
best actress Adrien Brody W best actor
for the brutalist watching the ceremony
for us was Lisa Richwine I think it was
a surprise that Anora won so many awards
they won five Awards Mikey Madison the
star won best actors that was a surprise
Demi Moore had been the heavy favorite
for that award this was an unpredictable
Oscars year there were many films in
contention but Anora is the clear winner
what about Oscar moments anything stand
out or any politics well there wasn't a
lot of politics Donald Trump was not
even mentioned once kind of a surprise
as uh some hosts and others have taken
Jabs at him in the past the closest
thing was a joke by Conan O'Brien where
he he talked about Anora which is is
about a young woman who marries the son
of a Russian oligarch and has to stand
up to his family and Conan made a joke
that I guess Americans were excited to
finally see someone stand up to a
powerful
Russian I see so no big ticket political
statements then the best documentary
winner was a film done by an Israeli and
a Palestinian about the region there and
both of the speakers talked about the
ongoing conflict with one of them saying
you know there there could be a
reasonable solution that would satisfy
both sides and and saying that the
United States in his view was blocking
that kind of a solution that was a very
heavy political statement on a topical
film there was a mention of Ukraine here
and there Daryl Hannah mentioned Ukraine
before she presented an award but
overall World politics or even us
politics was was largely absent we've
had the pandemic and the strikes is
there a sense that Hollywood is back
into gear or still facing challenges
there are definitely huge challenges
still and deshan Baker who won best
director for Anora actually talked about
one of the biggest which is that movie
going is dwindling as a Pastime for
Americans fewer people go to theaters he
said a thousand screens were lost during
the pandemic in the United States and he
really made a rallying cry to audiences
to to go back to Cinemas and watch
movies on the big screen
[Music]
and for today's recommended read we're
in the Chinese village of ma Thai where
the local fir waterer is under pressure
it's usually a bell weather for Chinese
consumer demand and its home Province
heavily depends on its cash flows to pay
down debt but in the weeks ahead of Luna
New Year the crowds who traditionally
snap up the white spirit for gifts were
notably smaller the there's a link to
the story in the Pod description for
more on any of the stories from today
check out reuters.com or the Reuters app
don't forget to follow us on your
favorite podcast player and we'll be
back tomorrow with our daily headline
show
