today Canadian Prime Minister Justin
Trudeau appears to be on the way out
minority leader hakeim Jeff looks to
play an outsized role in a divided house
Ukraine launches a fresh attack in
Russia's kers while Baltic Sea Nations
guard against suspected underwater
sabotage and the brutalist and Amelia
Perez win Top honors at the Golden
Globes
it's Monday January 6th this is Reuters
world news bringing you everything you
need to know from the front lines in 10
minutes every weekday I'm Carmel crims
in
Dublin Mr Speaker the Prime Minister has
lost the confidence of Canadians lost
the confidence of many of his MPS so
will the Prime Minister acknowledge he
has failed he has to
quit angry exchanges in Canada's
parliament just before Christmas after
Finance Minister Christia Freeland
resigned now as Source has told Reuters
that prime minister Justin Trudeau is
increasingly likely to step down but
they said he has not yet made a final
decision The Source spoke to Reuters
after the Globe and Mail newspaper
reported that Trudeau was expected to
announce as early as today that he would
quit the prime minister's office did not
immediately respond to a request for
comment polls show Trudeau's Liberal
Party would lose heavily to the official
opposition conservatives in an election
that must be held by late
October the United States has full
confidence in South Korea's institutions
and we reaffirm our unwavering support
for the Korean people as they work
tirelessly to uphold those institutions
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin in
Soul his visit comes as impeached
president Yun suuk Yul faces arrest
South Korean investig ators will seek an
extension of the arrest warrant after
they failed to serve it last week when
Security Service guards formed a human
chain to prevent access to Yun Austria
could be close to getting a government
led by the far-right freedom party after
efforts to form a Centrist government
collapsed far-right leader Herbert
kickle is set to meet the Austrian
president today to discuss forming a
government a fierce winter storm has
brought snow ice and freezing
temperatures to a broad sede of the US
with some 60 million people across more
than a dozen states under weather
warnings the storm is now barreling
towards the Mid-Atlantic states where
Washington DC is bracing for heavy snow
and bitter
cold and staying in the capital Congress
is set to meet today to formally certify
Donald Trump's election as president it
comes four years to the day when a mob
of his supporters stormed the capital in
a failed attempt to block the
certification of his 2020
loss and to the Golden Globes where the
brutalist a story of a holocaust
Survivor who chases the American dream
landed the best movie drama award and
musical Thriller Amelia Perez took home
the best drama film actor and Best
Director prizes hacks and Shogun won the
top TV honors you can check out all the
Hollywood glam of the Globes on
reuters.com and for more on the work of
Reuters photographers listen to our
weekend episode we take a look at some
of the top Reuters images from last year
and the stories behind them a link to
that show is in the description of
today's
[Music]
[Applause]
pod US Stocks face their first major
test of the Year this week with the
December jobs report out on Friday
investors are counting on the numbers
showing a steady economy anything that
suggests are weakening could damage
prospects for a third straight standout
year for stocks The Benchmark S&P closed
up last year with a 23% rise but you
know what did even better gold bullan
prices Rose 27% last year a rally will
be examining in closer detail in an
upcoming episode of reuter's econ World
stay tuned for details on
[Music]
that Republican Mike Johnson was
reelected house speaker on Friday Friday
but it was a squeaker he won only after
two Republican opponents switched their
votes to support him it illustrates just
how fragile the new Republican majority
is the party controls the chamber by 219
seats to
25 that means the top Democrat in the
house hakee Jeff could wield more power
than your average minority leader
Richard Cen covers Congress Rich what
gives Jeff leverage here what gives
hakee Jeff's leverage going into this
brand new Congress is not so much uh his
own Rank and file members but the chaos
and divisions among House Republicans
any defections by House Republicans any
revolts and there were plenty of those
over the last two years means that Jeff
has some power to make up the difference
so that the house Republican leadership
led by Speaker Johnson can carry through
and win some legislation but it takes
some bipartisan cooperation so in that
scenario a few Republicans could revolt
and Johnson comes to Jeff asking for
Democrats support for legislation which
opens up room for negotiations that's
happened a few times in the past few
years right it's happened more than a
dozen times over the last few years it
happened on multiple occasions on bills
to fund the government and so if a
couple even just just two or three of
those right-wing House Republicans peel
off and don't support leadership that's
jeffy's sweet spot that's where he can
step in maybe negotiate some changes to
a bill and provide the votes that are
needed Ukraine has launched a fresh
attack in the KK region in Western
Russia where its forces made a surprise
incursion last August since then Russia
has been trying to push Ukrainian forces
out Mike colet White is our editor at
large for the Ukraine war and has the
latest so in the last few days Ukrainian
forces have launched what Russian
military bloggers are calling quite
major attacks against Russian forces in
this pocket of the kskk region where
Ukraine has been making some sort of
territorial gain since last August the
narrative over the previous few months
had been that Russia was retaking some
of that lost territory and now Ukraine
has gone back on the offensive is the
objective here to send a signal to
Washington yes we think that there's no
coincidence in what's happening here so
the overall situation in the war and in
recent months has been that Russian
forces have been making steady but slow
gains across the Eastern front and this
obviously is putting Ukraine on the back
foot what president vomir zilinski
desperately wants to do is is to change
the narrative in order to have a
bargaining chip if and when any peace
negotiations do happen with an eye on
the inauguration of President Donald
Trump in the United States who has
promised to end this war quickly
although we still don't know how is
Ukraine likely to achieve that aim well
I think K is going to help it it gives
it something although the bigger picture
is less positive for KF and actually
today the Russians climed quite a large
town in the east of Ukraine called
kuraka which they've been trying to take
for several months which really
underlines how KF is not winning this
war in fact you could argue is is losing
the
[Music]
war and sticking with Europe a court in
Finland has denied the release of an oil
tanker suspected of damaging an undersea
power line and four data cables in the
Baltic Sea The Vessel carrying Russian
oil was seized on Christmas day it's one
of several incidents of power cables
Telecom lines and gas pipelines being
damaged in the Baltic Sea since Russia's
invasion of Ukraine NATO says it will
boost its presence in the region as a
result Esso is in Helsinki and has been
covering the story this was the first
time that the authorities were able to
actually go in stop the ship usually the
ships Sail on International Waters but
when Finland stopped it and the
authorities were able to determine that
the ship was dragging its anchor and
eventually they saw that one of the
anchors were missing they asked the chip
to move to to finish Regional Waters and
when that was done the authorities
actually went on board and and took off
the ship and took over the command
bridge and does this indicate a change
of approach to these incidents this is
quite unusual in the previous cases this
hasn't happened so to me where the
discussion is in Finland and elsewhere
in the region in the Baltic Sea
countries is how to stop these kinds of
incidents and the lawyer who represents
the shipping company that owns the oil
tanker has said that it was hijacked on
international waters and it was forced
to finish Waters so clearly there's some
kind of discussion going on about what
can be done if these incidents keep
happening and the Baltic Sea Nations
have been very alert and prepared for
subc power links or telecommunications
cables being broken and trying to kind
of catch whoever might be behind the
[Music]
breakage and today's recommended read
when the deadly grenfell toor blaze in
London led to Revelations that high-rise
public housing across the UK was wrapped
in flammable cladding the government
vowed the bill building contractors
responsible would pay 7 years on
contractors who fitted those cladding
panels that didn't meet fire safety
standards have largely escaped Financial
liability a link to the story is in the
Pod description and for more on any of
the stories from today check out
reuters.com or the Reuters app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back tomorrow
with our daily headline show
