today Trump and zinsky are set to meet
at the White House what a call for
Kurdish militance to disarm means for
The Wider Middle East am meel outbreak
in Texas is an early challenge for
vaccine skeptic RFK Jr and apple defends
its diversity
policies it's Friday February 28th this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tara Oaks in Liverpool and I'm Jonah
Green in New
York president Donald Trump says he will
meet with Ukrainian President Vladimir
zalinski later today in an oval office
meeting on Thursday with British prime
minister Kier starmer Trump touted a
potential minerals deal with Ukraine be
in there we're going to be actually in
there digging digging our hearts out
saying it would act as the security
guarantee keev needs against Russia it's
a back stop you could say I don't think
anybody's going to play around if we're
there with a lot of workers Trump also
softened his tone about the Ukrainian
leader ahead of his visit Mr pres do you
still think that Mr zinsky is a
dictator um did I say that I can't
believe I said that
Mexico has begun to hand over major
figures in the country's drug gang
underworld to us authorities the
surprise extradition follows ongoing
threats by Trump to impose across
theboard tariffs on Mexican Goods among
the nearly 30 convicts is Raphael Caro
Quintero alleged to be responsible for
the 1985 murder of a US anti-narcotics
agent he's due to be arraigned today in
Brooklyn Federal Court
how are Andrew Tate and his brother
Tristan arriving in Fort Lauderdale
Florida after prosecutors lifted a
travel ban on them the brothers are
under criminal investigation in Romania
on accusations of rape and human
trafficking they have denied all
wrongdoing Tate is a self-described
misogynist whose online instructional
videos direct men to among other things
physically assault women who accuse them
of
cheating all I can say is they have been
diseased deceased for for quite a while
an update from the Santa Fe county
sheriff after Jean Hackman and his wife
were found dead in their New Mexico home
sheriff's deputies found Hackman in the
kitchen his wife and a dog which was
inside a crate were in a bathroom with
scattered pills from an open
prescription bottle on the bathroom
counter people tending to a man lying
injured on the ground in Congo his leg
soaked in
blood explosions killed 11 and wounded
dozens at a rally held by M23 rebels in
the city of
[Music]
bukavu some of the biggest digital
currencies have erased nearly all of the
games they made after Donald Trump's
election win triggered a wave of
excitement across the industry Bitcoin
fell below $80,000 for the first time
this year hopes for a strategic Bitcoin
Reserve are fading and tariff threats
are weighing on demand for speculative
assets Trump's own so-called mem coin
which he launched days before his
inauguration in a move that sparked
conflict of interest concerns is down
80% from a January Peak that's according
to coin market cap data
[Music]
Kurds in turkey's Southeastern province
of diaki
celebrating as they watched a statement
who jailed militant leader Abdullah Ulan
calling for his Kurdistan Workers Party
or pkk to lay down
arms his message could end a 40-year
conflict with ankora and her
far-reaching political and security
consequences for the region edj toxi has
more Abdul Lon statement marks a
potential turning point in one of
turkey's most deep rooted conflicts for
president erdogan and his ruling a party
this moment presents both an opportunity
and a challenge the government has
consistently framed the pkk as turkey's
foremost security threat justifying
military operations in Northern Iraq and
Syria as well as in Turkey if the pkk
were to formally disarm it could shift
the focus toward a political solution to
the Kurdish issue so what are the
implications for The Wider Middle East
aelan call could have really wide
ranging consequences across the region
the pkk is deeply embedded in in
Regional power struggles so if the pkk
were to step away from from armed
conflict if it were to lay down arms it
could reshape many Dynamics within the
region especially between turkey the
Kurdistan Regional government in Iraq
the Kurdish forces in Syria such as the
ypg which has us
backing a growing measles outbreak in
West Texas is posing the first major
test to US Health secretary Robert F
Kennedy Jr a longtime vaccine skeptic
one child has died and nearly 20 others
have been hospitalized with serious
complications all were unvaccinated
overall more than 130 cases have been
reported in Texas and neighboring New
Mexico
our health reporter Chad tur Hune in Los
Angeles has been looking into the
response after the first death was
confirmed earlier this week US Health
secretary Robert F Kennedy Jr really had
an opportunity to come out with a very
forceful uh message about vaccination
how serious this disease is particularly
to young children and prepare medical
professionals all across the country to
be ready for this to help stem a growing
outbreak but instead at a cabinet
meeting with Donald Trump he basically
said this was not unusual we've had
outbreaks in the past it's
incidentally there have been four
measles outbreaks this year in this
country last year that were
16 so it's not unusual we have this was
stark contrast to later in the day when
Texas hospital officials who have been
treating these patients about 20
children and including the one death the
first one we've had had in 10 years had
a very different message they emphasized
the importance of vaccination that this
is a totally preventable disease earlier
this week State officials in Texas
issued an alert because one of the
infected individuals had traveled 400
miles away from this area West Texas had
visited uh busy college campuses a large
convenience store a tourist attraction
and they were just warning this is
exactly how this virus can spread far
and wide and infect many more
people president Trump is pushing Apple
to drop its Dei efforts the company's
shareholders voted to keep diversity
equity and inclusion policies this week
even as other tech companies fold
diversity programs under push back from
conservative groups our Tech reporter
Steven Nellis is here to explain the
impact of Apple's stance
what this tells us is that Apple's
shareholders are very comfortable with
the way that apple and Tim Cook have
implemented Dei at Apple one thing that
Tim Cook has been eager to point out is
that Apple has never set any kind of
quotas or any kind of metrics for Target
numbers they wanted to hit prior to this
apple had actually among large tech
companies come in for criticism of not
making the kind of progress that
advocates for Dei program said wanted to
see so I think what this really shows is
that Apple does these things a little
bit differently than than many other
companies in Corporate America and if
you just actually look at some of the
data that Apple themselves published uh
on on race data in 2019 the company uh
had about 4% of its leadership uh
reported as black and then in 2022 that
was 4.4% so there wasn't a huge
difference there but I think it pays to
remember here that Apple actually has uh
more than 100,000 employees and a lot of
those employees are the face of its
retail operations so it's it's very
difficult to sort of lump Apple in with
a lot of its Silicon Valley peers who
did things like put targets or quotas
into place so how is Apple now
responding to pressure from the Trump
Administration to pull back efforts and
even threatening legal action I think
Tim Cook is a master class of Engagement
without necessarily compromising on any
core principles there were media reports
that Tim Cook met with President Trump
last week on Monday you saw Apple come
out and say we're going to spend half a
trillion dollars in the United States
now a lot of that is spending that Apple
probably would have done anyway but
after the vote Tim Cook said if the
legal environment changes we will make
any changes that we need to be compliant
but our quote North Star of dignity for
every individual is not going to waver
[Music]
and for today's recommended read a
Hollywood comeback story Demi Moore is
eyeing her first Oscar for her starring
role in the substance a movie about a
fading TV fitness instructor whose
injection of a youth serum goes arai
there's a link to a story in the Pod
description and of course this being
Oscar's weekend our weekend podcast
dropping tomorrow is all about
Hollywood's big night the films the
fashion the scandals all of it for more
on any of the stories from today check
out reuters.com or the Reuters app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player so make sure to check
that out and we'll be back on Monday
with our daily headline show
