hi there it's Christopher walljasper
here a producer and sometimes co-host of
Reuters world news before we begin this
weekend special episode I wanted to take
a moment and just explain the format of
the show today because we're trying
something a little
different every year our photo editors
put together a compilation of images
taken by reuter's photojournalists that
encapsulates the year that was and 2024
was a big
year so today I'm talking to three
photojournalists and their Editor to
discuss how they captured the year in
images now obviously photography is a
visual medium and we're an audio podcast
so it's going to be a bit experimental
but all the images we're discussing
today are available on the show page of
the podcast so you can pull them up and
experience them as we talk about what
went into making these photos so if you
open up your podcast player right now
click the link in the show description
it'll take you to the images we're about
to discuss all right now here's the
episode mayie Wong is our senior photo
editor and in charge of Special Projects
here at Reuters every year she's tasked
with picking the photos that encapsulate
the news of the year May uh there was so
much that went on this year how did you
even begin to choose this year's images
wow so I think
2024 was quite intense you know we say
that every year and every year we just
can't help but notice some of the things
that were happening every year I have
this privilege of looking at hundreds of
thousands of photos shot by our writers
photographers from around the world and
it really is quite overwhelming
sometimes because the topic that just
happened that was like world changing
and suddenly something else happens
that's huge and you just carry on right
you keep going so at the end of the year
when you sit down and you take this
overview on things we had major events
the Israel Hamas War has kind of evolved
into more of a Middle East war and then
you have climate which is such an
important topic that is isn't getting
any better and then of course you have
elections which was such a big story
all the political turmoil protests
governments
changing however we can't ignore as
photo editors and photographers the
beauty of daily life that happens that
gives hope even in war there are
glimpses of Hope right I'm glad you
mentioned that an image that Susanna
Vera took in Tel Aviv at the beginning
of 2024 really captures that idea hey
Susan happy to be here now the image is
of a couple walking through a market
holding hands you can't see their faces
but one has a rifle slung over their
shoulder and to the left there's just a
sliver of a woman's face Suz what were
you thinking about when you made this
image I was basically trying to come up
with a set of images that would document
a daily life in a con Zone basically
when you get there for the first time
it's very very striking I think for most
of us to see people of all ages going
about their daily lives carrying rifles
and I went to this market and I happened
to come across this soldier holding
hands with this woman and the uh rifle
happened to be right next to the Joint
hands and it was striking because of the
contrast I think you know you don't need
any language to have this reference of
right love war
violence and so I followed the couple
for a little bit as they were strolling
through the market which is an outdoor
Market it was around midday it was a
sunny day and I really really I'm very
drawn to that type of light because it
gives depth and it cannot gives you the
the chance of having different layers
within the frame and I knew that they
were walking and going in and out of the
light and uh it was one of those moments
where it's a combination of something
that you have in your head nice light
thinking about composition and then
complete lack I think we don't talk
about lack enough in photography lack is
a very important element and I was just
very lucky that at that moment I was
able to basically press the shadow when
uh the other woman was walking by and
you only get to see you know one of her
eyes and I think not only does it
balance the composition but it provides
the whole image with a little bit of
kind of like eeriness to it and and I
think it makes you linger to be very
Frank with you Susanna
when I was going through like the 25,000
pictures from the Middle East wall I
didn't see the face on the left at first
but then when I saw the face and I'm
like wow it's like Easter eggs that
you're planting in your pictures so if
anyone looks at the Susanna Vera photo
look hard and look again because she was
surpris you with little elements it
illuminates it educates and it surprises
man thank you for all your comments good
lordy thank
now of course the war in the Middle East
was a defining story this year we've
gotten so used to pictures of
Destruction and and Carnage bodies and
Rubble but there's also been images of
humanity and resilience even Joy May
were there any images that made an
impact on you uh for the contrast they
brought to the scenes of of conflict and
destruction a picture that really stood
out was for me a picture shot by our
colleague Muhammad Salam of a beautiful
pink wedding dress in the middle of this
war zone which is so out of place right
and when I spoke to him and asked him
why he took that picture and I think a
lot of it is like he's not different
from any of us he wants to show balance
right and he is also in his own way
trying to find some reprieve as a
photographer from facing all the
difficult images every day he says that
sometimes he just walks around and tries
to find signs of Hope as well I think
take a look at that picture it's a
really painful picture to look at but
yet beautiful in its quiet moment yeah
it's really haunting these mannequins in
beautiful dresses right next to wreckage
of a building now of course there was
more than just conflict in the world
last year some of the standout images
weren't from the biggest new stories of
the year but everyday events Thomas mcoa
is based in Nairobi and captured this
scene of a group of firefighters
battling an intense fire at an oil Depot
thanks for being here Thomas thank you
now you can almost feel the heat coming
off this image H tell us what was going
through your mind as you shot this I've
never been in such uh high temperatures
before in my life I felt like I was in
hell I was was in the city center
strolling such an hour like 6:00 in the
evening and as I was going to the coffee
shop just to have a drink I saw some
smoke up in the air and decided hey what
could this be so I jumped onto a
motorbike taxi and uh once I got to this
Scene It was barrels of paint drums and
oil used oil barrels that were up in
Flames so I saw boom a big uh smoke and
a flame go up one of the drums had
bursted so I said I have to stay close
to these uh firefighters and the
volunteers who know this place very well
so I said I can't just take photos of
the blaze I have to look at the people
responding to this emergency so because
they were talking and trying to identify
the different areas I said let me try
and get to their places to understand
what they're talking about so I moved
back to taking photos doing videos
taking photos it was all orange it was
hot so I went to their faces and I just
wanted that feel because it was so hot
for all of us and yeah that's how I
ended up taking that photo as I was
looking through the edit I think for
everything that Thomas said and I'm so
glad that you're safe is that first of
all yeah when you look at the picture
you don't think about all the things
that happened behind the scenes right
and and now it's so great that we can
have Thomas break that down for us from
a picture's perspective this photo is
just just so powerful because there's
all this light falling on their face
right it almost looks theatrical but I
would like to point out I'm not sure if
any of you saw this but when you look at
images and sometimes when they're strong
and when they're work it's because they
give you visual
associations to things that you might
recognize and in this photo it reminded
me very much of the picture from 1945
raising the flag on Evo gima by Joel
Rosenthal it's a very iconic photo the
black and white photo of the Marines
planting the flag the visual Association
here do you can see the similarities and
I think there's something very beautiful
about this and so that that's why this
picture is very strong in my
[Applause]
opinion now in Thomas's photo we felt
that extreme heat but as mayie mentioned
there were so many massive storms and
flooding events last year Lisa Marie
David in the Philippines captured some
of that when in November a typhoon
struck in Manila hey
Lisa thanks for having us now you can
really feel the strength of this typhoon
in one particular image it's of two kids
playing next to a concrete barrier as a
massive wave crashes around them Lisa
tell me about shooting this image the
photo of the two children huddling as
they play with strong waves was they can
with when super typhoon man made its
landfall on the nor Northeast of the
island in November the rain was on and
off but the waves had been pretty strong
most of the time um residents tend to
stay in their houses despite the
warnings so when we arrived in the
coastal area life was going on there was
even an ongoing construction of the
flood wall in the area and close to the
workers were these children there were
more than five of them just playing
around waiting for the wave to crash on
the floor wall and they were laughing
and shouting of Joy so it was actually a
light moment considering we were talking
about a super typhoon and I don't want
to sound don't de about this but time
stack Le remind me that it's not just
about grief it's also about the light
moments in between usually Filipinos are
praise for being resilient so I also try
to battle that idea in my mind not to
glorify the resilience so it's a balance
of trying to document both the light and
the difficult moments during disaster
yeah and I and I think what's beautiful
about this image is the movement in it
the way that the wave wraps around these
boys what were you thinking in trying to
capture all these moving Parts quite
literally while you're shooting this um
I think it was a bit challenging because
at first I tried to position myself in
front of them basically the waves were
splashing from from my back and I
couldn't really see how strong the
upcoming wave would be I could see their
faces but my camera got splashed as well
I got splashed and of course uh I have
to also consider like the equipment
myself and if it's worth the photograph
since I were I was going to cover the
actual flooding in the following days
and then when I was photographing
directly at them they would sometimes
make poses they would they're very aware
that they're being photographed so yeah
this was photographed when I stopped
taking picture of them basically uh and
then I moved away and then I was I saw
them still playing so yeah I I I I still
tried to photograph them from from afar
I think what your picture brought to the
entire like Ro's coverage is is balance
because like you said children are
children everywhere and anywhere it
could be the saddest of moments and
they'll somehow find some way to find
some Joy but of course it's important
that we don't gloss over the suffering
so I think what's nice about this is
when you look at the picture you
understand that okay it's a little bit
dangerous but you can almost imagine
them giggling in the photo so she did
capture that spirit so thank you for
bringing that
balance so much thought goes into making
a one picture and you know you know it's
like you can't really know all these
things that happen in the background in
one over a fraction of a second that's
essentially how long it takes to make
most of our pictures in our lives and I
mean the big joke is that we we we joke
about how we really only work two hours
in a year if you put all the
photographic timings together but you
spend hours Planning and Building trust
with your subjects right just to bring
you that moment of time that hopefully
can move the world
[Music]
forever special thanks to all our photo
journalists around the globe especially
those who joined us for today's
conversation Susanna Vera in Madrid
Spain Thomas mcoa in Nairobi Kenya and
Lisa Marie David in Manila in the
Philippines and thanks to mayie Wong for
compiling the photos that captured 2024
for the world you can see all their
images at reuters.com check out all our
2024 image galleries they'll be linked
on the show page as well Reuters world
news is produced every week by David
Spencer Gail Isa Jonah green Kim vanel
Sharon R garon and myself Christopher
walljasper our senior producers are Tara
Oaks and carel KMS our executive
producer is Leela dzer engineering sound
design and music composition ition by
Josh summer we'll be back on Monday with
our daily headline show make sure to
follow us on your favorite podcast
player or download the Reuters app
[Music]
