today Harris concedes to Trump but vows
to fight on how unbridled rhetoric on
inflation and immigration was ultimately
a vote winner what Trump's victory means
for his many legal troubles and what the
new president-elect means for fed rates
and the economy in
general it's Thursday November 7th this
is reuter's world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm tar Oaks in Washington DC and I'm
Jonah Green in New
York the outcome of this election is not
what we
wanted not what we fought for the
concession speech vice president kamla
Harris addressing her supporters many of
them in tears at her Elma Mar Howard
University vowing to keep fighting for
the ideals that power her campaign to
the White House while I concede this
election I do not concede the fight that
fueled this
campaign a warning of potentially tough
times ahead I know many people feel like
we are entering a dark time but for the
benefit of us all I hope that is not the
case later today President Joe Biden
will address the nation to discuss the
election results and the transition
the White House says Biden has invited
president-elect Trump to meet with him
in the White House and expressed his
commitment to ensuring a smooth
transition of
[Music]
power as we look ahead to what Trump's
second term might bring political
analysts are trying to understand just
how Trump made such a remarkable
comeback with such an unrestrained
campaign reporter Graham Slattery has
been digging into the data and speaking
with Trump allies we've spent so much
time looking at micro demographics and
and elements of the ground game and just
looking at very particular regions of
States but in the end it was very very
simple people were upset about inflation
they were upset about immigration and he
was able to hit those issues very
consistently people didn't like the
direction of the country and it created
a situation where it was very very
difficult for vice president Harris to
be very effective she was sledding
uphill and that's something we saw in
all the exit polls we've examined you
know in some ways perhaps it was simpler
than we realized some donors thought
that his dark rhetoric on migrants could
hurt his campaign why didn't that move
the needle in talking to his close
allies one thing that they think is that
even when he says something that's very
inflammatory or just patently false when
it relates to something like immigration
it keeps the news cycle focused on
immigration rather than issues that are
not as good for Trump in terms of VO
trust so for instance during his debate
against Harris in September he repeated
these falsehoods about Haitian
immigrants eating household pets in Ohio
a lot of allies were very concerned that
that was going to hurtt his standing
with moderate voters perhaps it did but
it also created a twoe news cycle where
there was very little discussion of the
issues that were strong for Harris such
as democracy or Reproductive Rights and
created a two-e news cycle where people
were talking about immigration which is
an issue that people trust Trump
on as a Federal Reserve meets today
analysts are expecting Fed chair J
Powell to announce a quarter percentage
point cut to the fed's policy rate and
those promises Trump made on immigration
and tax which helped win him the boat
will now be issues the FED has to factor
in to its rate setting
decisions to help us understand how
Trump's economic plans might play out we
caught up with our us economics editor d
burs in DC Donald Trump will return to
the White House with really ambitious
plans around broad import tariffs
immigration restrictions and additional
tax cuts that economists see delivering
probably a short-term boost to economic
growth but also substantially larger
budget deficits weaker Workforce growth
and ultimately potentially higher
inflation at the center of his proposals
really are two things the first is to
extend all of the
2017 tax cuts that were enacted in his
first term he's added to that by also
calling for some Hefty new tax breaks
and the next of course is he has very
aggressive plans for tariffs he would
like to impose a uh essentially a 10%
across the board tariffs on all Goods
imported into the United States and even
higher levies on imports from China
these would if fully imposed
return the effective us tariff levels to
nearly 18% which is the highest
according to the tax Foundation since
1934 it would result in essentially a
one-time price increase effect for us
households and that's something that
some economists see ultimately is a drag
on growth so how might his other policy
plans affect the economy so he also has
plans to restrict immigration and that
would have a notable economic effect
either restricting new arrivals or if he
follows through on his threats for mass
deportations that would cut into the US
Labor Force and that could re accelerate
wage growth which has begun to come down
a bit and that's because employers would
be competing to fill jobs from a more
limited labor pool so the combination of
all that risks a rekindling of inflation
that could mean that the Run of interest
rate Cuts we expect from the FED over
the next year or so there may just not
be as many of them and they may not end
up being able to cut rates as deeply as
currently estimated and if you want to
understand more about the fed's decision
today listen to our latest episode of
econ World podcast with carel crions
where she talks about the elusive
Goldilocks interest rate there's a link
in the Pod
[Music]
description Trump's win also means that
he will soon be become the first
convicted felon to assume the presidency
and the 78-year-old stands charged with
criminal offenses in three other cases
so what does Trump's Victory mean for
those cases Jack Queen is our legal
correspondent Jack first remind us what
the incoming president currently stands
accused of so he technically has three
pending criminal cases right now one of
them is in Washington DC federal court
over his efforts to overturn his 2020
election loss there's another in Georgia
State Court about the same conduct and
there's a Florida federal court case
about his handling of classified
documents upon leaving office and then
finally he was convicted earlier this
year in New York State Court illegally
covering up hush money payments to a
porn star and he is scheduled to be
sentenced in that case soon but it's
actually unclear now when that's going
to happen or if it'll happen and so what
happens to all of these cases once he
becomes president so the short answer is
they go away MH to unpack that a little
bit the federal cases now again that's
the Washington DC one and the Florida
one he can end those immediately his
first day in office because the
president is the chief federal law
enforcement officer in the country the
Attorney General serves at his pleasure
as do all the people underneath the
Attorney General we've reported that the
doj is already looking at ways to wind
down those cases and end them before he
takes office because there's also
long-standing justice department policy
that the doj cannot prosecute a sitting
president because the president is the
boss of the doj so those go away the
Georgia state court case is a little
different because it was not brought by
federal prosecutors but that one is also
not long for this world it's extremely
unlikely if not impossible that a court
would be willing to try a sitting
president in state court and
they couldn't just delay it until after
his presidency is over four years
because that would violate his right to
a speedy trial and presumably he's not
going to jail if he's sentenced later
this month sentencing a sitting
president to prison it's pretty much
inconceivable so it looks like he's all
but guaranteed to avoid any serious
consequences in that case
a caravan of some 3,000 migrants has
gathered in southern Mexico headed to
the US border Caravan comes after an
easing of Migrant Crossings in recent
months and as president-elect Donald
Trump threatens mass deportations of
undocumented migrants currently in the
US German Chancellor Olaf Schultz
announcing his decision to fire his
Finance Minister over budget disputes
the ruling coalition collapse paves the
way for a snap
election Ukrainian forces have clashed
with North Korean troops according to
Ukraine's Defense Minister President
Vladimir zalinski has said it marks a
new page of instability in the
world Israeli strikes in Lebanon have
killed 40 people around the eastern city
of balbec in the Baka Valley according
to the lebanes health Ministry further
Israeli strikes hit multiple locations
in the capital Beirut following the
Israeli orders to evacuate the Israeli
military has not yet
commented today's recommended read looks
ahead to next week and the un's cop 29
climate Summit with newly released data
showing that this year is virtually
certain to Eclipse 2023 as a world's
warmest since records began you can read
more about it by following the link in
the pod description and for more on any
of the stories from today check out
reuters.com or the Reuters app to never
miss an episode follow along on your
favorite podcast player we'll be back
tomorrow with our daily headline show
