today Australia bans social media for
under
16s Israel and Hezbollah trade ceasefire
violation
accusations we look at how Russia's new
arnik missiles work and Ireland's
governing parties look set tobook the
trend of Voters punishing incumbents for
inflation it's Friday November 29th this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything un need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Torah Oaks in
Liverpool we've got your back is our
message to Australian parents Australian
prime minister Anthony albanesi after
the country's parliament passed a law
Banning those under the age of 16 from
using social media platforms the law
forces Tech Giants from meta to Tik Tok
to stop miners from logging in or face
fines of over $30 million a year a trial
of enforcement methods will start in
January with the ban to take effect in a
year but one user 11-year-old Emma
Wakefield says it won't stop her I feel
like I still use it like to secretly get
in or
something Israel and Hezbollah have
traded accusations of violating a
fragile ceasefire the day after the deal
went into effect Maya jabale is in beir
so Maya what do these accusations mean
for the ceasefire deal I think we need
to take a step back to actually look at
what each side is accusing the other of
doing so what the Israeli military said
on on Wednesday and Thursdays that it it
noted activity in the southern Border
strip the Israeli military has basically
created a noo Zone in that in that
border strip which is actually not part
of the ceasefire deal but they've said
along these villages is you know IDF
troops are still present and we are
Banning any activity along the right
along the the Border stretching all the
way from the West all the way across
across the East there's dozens of
villages included in in that strip and
the IDF says any activity around these
villages will be considered a violation
of of the deal now again that's not
actually in the text of the ceasefire
and what about the other side the
Lebanese Army and Hezbollah have said is
that the IDF fire ing on any activity
that it sees along that border strip is
a violation of the deal which stipulates
that there shall be a complete cessation
of hostilities except for in issues of
in matters of self-defense Lebanese Army
and hasbalah also point to an Israeli
air strike that took place north of
Vitani River on Thursday targeting
apparently what the IDF said was a
facility where where hasala was storing
mid-range Rockets So when you get into
the details of it what it actually
really shows you is that there's a a lot
of there's still a lot of fog around the
ceasefire deal in terms of what can be
considered a violation and what is not
considered a violation the fundamental
issue is that the monitoring mechanism
that is supposed to be upholding and
monitoring and checking what these
different breaches are that hasn't been
set up yet that's supposed to include
unifil the Lebanese the Israelis the US
and the
French sticking with the Middle East
Iranian and European diplomats are
meeting today in Geneva on the agenda
whether they can get on the same page to
defuse tensions including over Tran's
disputed nuclear program before Donald
Trump returns to the White
House and speaking of the
president-elect it was a friendly phone
call that was Mexican president Claudia
Shin Bam's assessment of her recent
conversation with Trump she says they
agreed to maintain good relations in an
apparent easing of tensions between the
trading partners amid his tariff
threats in eastern Uganda at least 15
people have been killed after a
landslide triggered by heavy rains
buried dozens of homes across several
Villages Ugandan R cross Society footage
showing villagers crying as others pull
mudslide victims out of the ground more
than 100 people are
missing police and protesters clashed in
the Georgia capital of tii early this
morning the protests coming after the
country's ruling party said the
government would suspend talks on
European Union accession until
2028 and in Ukraine the second major
Russian attack on its energy
infrastructure this month it triggered
deep power cuts across the country with
President Vladimir zelinski calling it a
Despicable escalation Russian president
Vladimir Putin saying its strike was in
response to Ukraine during us attacks on
Russian
territory Putin has also threatened to
use Russia's new oresnik Hypersonic
missile to attack decisionmaking centers
in Kiev he's called the weapon
Unstoppable but military experts have
told Reuters It's actually an
application of old technology used for
many years in intercontinental ballistic
missiles our Ukraine bureau chief Tom
balfor spoke to missile expert Jeffrey
Lewis who gave us a Lowdown on how the
new arnik missile Works especially the
Warhead bus which sits on top of the
booster and drops the WarHeads from
space onto their targets what the
Russians have done is taken that basic
idea of a bus and they've married it to
Conventional Weapons and used it to
deliver Conventional Weapons for the
first time in history you know this is a
new capability but it is not a not a
capability that represents a dramatic
change in the way that Conventional
Weapons are developed it's old
Technologies put together in a new way
there's a lot of equipment in that that
piece of Kit right it's a hugely I
imagine it's hugely expensive do you
think there a rationale for Putin
continuing to use these consider you if
if he has enough of them to use or do
you think that would just be insane I'm
not going to say what is or is not
insane when dealing with Vladimir Putin
the man has his own calculus this is an
incredibly expensive way to deliver what
is probably not much destruction we will
have to see how much damage the Russians
were able to do to this plant but this
is a conventional ballistic missiles are
really really expensive way to do uh a
small amount of damage Vladimir Putin
did two days of press around the thing
if the weapon were inherently terrifying
he would just use it but that's not
quite enough he's had to use it and then
he had to do a press conference and then
he had to do a second press conference
to say hey this thing is really scary to
see how the missiles were adapted follow
the link in the Pod description to see
our video and Graphics following how it
worked on each step of his path and
pictures of the missile
[Music]
wreckage South Korea's biggest music
label hyp is having a very bad day on
markets K-Pop group new jeans is
breaking up with it and Carl cmans has
more the girl group wiped 7% of hb's
market value after the announc oun they
were parting ways it's a dramatic move
hve is an influential Studio it's the
label behind super group BTS and
typically in this industry stars are
locked into multi-year agreements the
backstory here is that new jeans has
been caught up in infighting between
hyve and the band's creative director at
a late night press conference they told
their bunnies which is how they refer to
their fans that they're hoping to
release new music next year but they
have said they might not be able to use
their band name anymore hi is saying the
agreement with the group remains in
effect so a legal battle May ensue and
staying in
Dublin it's been a bad year for
government seeking reelection in Europe
but Ireland may be about to Buck that
Trend opinion polls suggest its two
center right governing parties will
retain
power paric Halpin is covering today's
vote from Dublin poric why would Ireland
be immune to what's happened in other
Western democracies with voters
punishing governments for years of
inflation I think the big difference in
Ireland is is the public finances so the
government have had these very large
budget surfaces for the last two to
three years and rather than the the
spending cuts and tax increases you're
seeing countries like France Britain had
a very difficult budget recently in
Ireland there were have been big
giveaway budgets big spending increases
income tax cuts you've had Parents
pensioners carers all getting won off
payments to help with the cost of living
and a lot of those payments actually
obviously not not not without
coincidence landed during the campaign
themselves has I guess quelled some of
the frustration out there like I don't
think people are happy there's
definitely a sense of frustration during
during the campaign but the government
has I suppose the financial power
Financial Firepower to quell that enough
that it looks like it's on course for
reelection and speaking of Elections and
inflation this week's econ World podcast
is all about the outlook for prices as
president-elect Donald Trump takes
office you can catch it on the Reuters
app or wherever you get your
[Music]
podcasts and for today's recommended
read let's keep that Thanksgiving
holiday spirit going into the weekend
we've got the highlights from the 98th
Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in New
York there's a link to the story and the
photos in the Pod description and if
you're in holiday shopping mode with
Black Friday check out our special
weekend episode all about retail it's
out tomorrow for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app to never miss an
episode follow us on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back on Monday
with our daily headline show
