today the US Supreme Court hears
arguments on congress's Tik Tock ban
Elon Musk shifts his political interest
to Germany's far-right afd party and the
future of corporate diversity equity and
inclusion
[Music]
initiatives it's Friday January 10th
this is reuter's world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Christopher walljasper in Chicago
and I'm David Spencer in
London Donald Trump is scheduled to be
sentenced today for his conviction on
criminal charges in his hush money case
the US Supreme Court rejected his last
minute request to Halt it just days
ahead of his inauguration
[Music]
the state funeral of US President Jimmy
Carter who died last month at the age of
100 President Joe Biden gave the eulogy
for the 39th President Jimmy Carter's
friendship taught
me and through his life taught me the
strength of character is more
than title or the power we hold Biden
was among five living presidents who
attended the funeral President George W
bush Bill Clinton Barack Obama and
Donald Trump were all in attendance
seated next to one another Carter's
remains have been flown to his hometown
of Plains Georgia where he'll be buried
next to his
wife the brief Detention of Venezuelan
opposition leader Maria Karina Mardo has
been condemned by world leaders she was
held for an hour after appearing in
public for the first time in months a
day before President Nicholas maduro's
inauguration ation for a third term the
government says the opposition
fabricated her
arrest at least 10 people are now known
to have died in the Los Angeles
wildfires with nearly 10,000 structures
destroyed five fires were burning into a
third night on Thursday as dry Desert
Winds again gathered strength nearly
180,000 people have been ordered to
evacuate their homes for the latest on
the wildfires follow updates on the
Reuters app or website and listen out
for our weekend episode looking at the
key issues that have been highlighted by
these wildfires and what California
might need to do to prevent future
Devastation on this scale that pod drops
on
Saturday Global shares have been under
pressure as investors countown to the US
jobs report today on the lookout for
numbers which could exacerbate or ease
the sell-off in the global bond market
both Nasdaq futures and S&P 500 futures
were down
0.3% as Wall Street was shuttered
overnight to Mark the funeral of Jimmy
Carter the US Supreme Court hears
arguments today in a case that pits Free
Speech against National Security the US
ban on Tik Tok is set to go into effect
on January 18 threatening the accounts
of 170 million American users pending a
ruling from the highest court David
shepardson is covering the case in DC
David what should we expect from the
court today so it's not like a typical
case where you can easily sort of
predict along ideological lines where
the court might end up but it's clear
that bite dance and Tik Tock are putting
all their the entire focus and is what
the court wants them to look at is is
the first amendment issue and and
they're going to really press this
argument that Congress was motivated not
by data because they argue there's other
Chinese apps that collect lots of data
they're going to argue that this really
is about the content of videos that have
been on Tik Tok and their response by
congress not about the National Security
grounds but there are two fundamental
views in opposition to one another here
the conservatives on the Supreme Court
have been generally pretty
strong on defending the First Amendment
rights of Americans in terms of free
speech across a wide variety of cases
versus Nation security and the court and
the conservatives have shown a lot of
difference to the government when they
invoke National Security grounds so
political support isn't really falling
along neat political party lines here no
absolutely not in fact you have a lot of
conservative attorney generals and
others who really say this is just a
risk that the United States can't
tolerate the other hand president elect
Trump talked during the campaign about
saving Tik Tock and trying to appeal the
younger voters and so no I think he very
much wants to find a way to keep Tik
Tock afloat and just given sort of this
the weird sort of timing by happen
stance that this goes into effect one
day before this change Administration
sort of makes the whole legal case much
more
dramatic in the last few months
Germany's right alternative for Germany
party or afd has caught the attention of
Elon Musk thanks in part to a
24-year-old German social media
influencer named Naomi zeit musk's
interest in the afd has grown to full
endorsement as he took to X yesterday to
interview Alice vdal the co-leader of
afd and its pick for Chancellor in
February's elections our senior
correspondent in Berlin Thomas esgr was
watching so there have been a lot of
concerns that must support for the afd
and other far-right parties across
Europe could amount to election
interference so this conversation was
being monitored for the possibility of
misinformation and even hate speech
what's behind those concerns the
fundamental concern I think is that he
has the ability to bring enormous sums
of money to European politics European
politics is very different from us
politics spending is much more tightly
regulated I think one concern is simply
that as a very rich powerful man who
controls the social media platform he is
very well placed to uh put his thumb on
the scales in the elections which are
coming up in Germany in February the
23rd so officials in Brussels are
carefully monitoring how the
conversation went musk introduced vdal
by saying that she was the leading
candidate to be Germany's Next leader
which of course is very unlikely to be
true for one thing her party is second
on the polls and all the other parties
in the German Parliament have said that
they won't work with the afd which means
she won't be able to build a coalition
but it was enormous exposure for someone
who is actually not particularly well
known outside Germany has musk responded
to claims that he's trying to somehow
influence these elections he has said
that he is a free speech absolutist and
that he is entitled to make his views
known and he says that there is nothing
underhand or dishonest about his
expression of of opinions including on
European politics he also says that he
has a legitimate interest in European
politics he of course does have
Investments here he has a very large
Tesla Factory outside Berlin the afd has
declined to comment on what contact they
have with musk when asked they have
admitted that Vidal's office was in
contact with musk office to set up this
discussion but nothing beyond that so
far over the past year a conservative
backlash against wokeness has corporate
enthusiasm for diversity equity and
inclusion also known as Dei Reuters
interviews with corporate directors and
advisers as well as a recent study paint
a stark picture of how pronounced its
Fallout has been Isa biny covers
corporate governance and chatted with
Chris about these issues so what we're
seeing in corporate boardrooms is that
diverse people broadly have more seats
at the table than they did in 2020 but
in the past year among those new
directors getting seats at those tables
the proportion of black people in
particular is significantly lower than
it was in the previous two years and
from those you spoke to what might be
behind this drop is there a cultural
shift around Dei initiatives there is a
sense that this is not an issue that has
gone away
and there is still interest among
corporations in ensuring diversity at
the highest levels however whereas in
recent years especially following 2020
and a real spurring of the black lives
matter movement around National outrage
around the killing of George Floyd that
the
priorities have somewhat shifted so
whereas diversity may have been in the
top two criteria for a company seeking a
new board member around that time that
now there is less
emphasis what is the case for diversity
in boardrooms one argument that comes up
quite frequently is that if you are
expecting any executive to be challenged
by their board that perhaps if they are
similar to each other and they think Sim
l or indeed if they even knew each other
and they were within each other's
networks perhaps before that there is
less chance that there would be the
necessary challenge to ensure that
correct and good practices are being
[Music]
followed and for today's recommended
read a look at the life and work of
Jimmy Carter a link to the story and a
set of images from from Thursday State
funeral is in the Pod description for
more on any of the stories today check
out reuters.com or the reuter app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back on Monday
with our daily headline show
