today keev says Russia has for the first
time fired an intercontinental ballistic
missile at Ukraine Indian billionaire
gatal madani is facing us charges of
Fraud and bribery what does that mean
for his Global Empire we'll look at
Donald Trump's plans for a US education
system and targets shares slide as it
heads for a lackluster holiday
season it's Thursday November 2
this is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Christopher walljasper in
Chicago Russia has launched an
intercontinental ballistic missile from
its southern astrion region in an attack
on Ukraine this morning that's according
to kev's Air Force if confirmed it would
Mark the first time Russia has used the
powerful nuclear capable missile during
the nearly three-year War these icbms
have AR range of thousands of kilometers
the move comes as Ukraine fired a volley
of British Storm Shadow cruise missiles
as well as us attacks into Russia this
week something Moscow has warned for
months would be seen as a major
escalation Russia has not commented on
the Air Force's statement
Indian billionaire gotam adani is facing
a US indictment for an alleged $265
million bribery scheme it's a huge blow
for one of India's biggest businessmen
prime minister Narendra Modi has been
accused by political opponents of
favoritism toward adani's businesses
Aditi Shaw is covering the Fallout in
New Delhi broadly there are two main
charges one charge is of the $265
million bribe
and the other charge is of fraud now the
bribery charge involves an adani entity
called adani Green energy and an Indian
company called Azure power that was
listed on the New York Stock Exchange
until late last year what the
prosecutors allege is that the two
companies colluded to pay bribes to
Indian government officials to win and
retain some renewable energy projects in
the country the second fraud charge is
that when adani went out of the market
to raise money to fund some of his renew
energy projects He also raised money
from us investors but around the time
when he was raising money it was also
the same time when you know these bribes
were underway so how has adani responded
he's denied all the charges he's called
them baseless saying that you know it
upholds the highest standards of
governance transparency and compliance
and um finally the group said that
they're going to take all possible legal
recourse as well what are the possible
ramifications to his businesses yeah so
he's got a sprawling you know Empire not
just in India which cuts across ports
airports other infrastructure projects
in countries like Australia and in
places like Sri Lanka in Kenya and in
Israel we don't know yet what the
immediate impact on that will be but
there has been immediate setback in
India already there was sort of a blood
bath on the stock exchange and investors
in his listed entities here have already
lost over $30 billion he's also
cancelled a $600 million us do nominated
B issue now us prosecutors have issued
an arrest warrant for adani is there any
chance he'd actually be detained so the
US and India have uh an extradition
treaty between them but for any arrest
to be executed what lawyers say is that
us authorities would need to get in
touch with Indian authorities however
legally adani could seek a settlement
and a dismissal of the indictment for
any sort of fine that he has to pay
the Australian government has introduced
a bill that aims to ban social media for
children under the age of 16 The
Proposal includes fines of up to $32
million for social media platform
breaches as well as a trial of an age
verification system that could include
Biometrics or government IDs to enforce
the age
limit the US House Ethics Committee is
not releasing the findings of an
investig ation into sexual misconduct
allegations against attorney general
nominee Matt Gates the Ethics Committee
met behind closed doors where ranking
Democrat Susan wild says members were
split along party
lines a powerful storm has clobbered
Washington State killing two people
knocking out power to hundreds of
thousands and disrupting road travel the
first atmospheric River storm of the
season has shifted to California and is
expected to bring extreme rainfall by
the end of the
week in the US the Senate has voted to
block three resolutions introduced by
progressives that would have stopped the
transfer of some Us weapons to Israel
and a un Security Council resolution for
a ceasefire in Gaza faced similar fate
after the US vetoed it drawing criticism
of the Biden Administration for again
blocking International action aimed at
ending Israel's war with Hamas
[Applause]
the holiday season is upon us but retail
giant Target isn't optimistic about the
final months of the year the company is
announcing that its earnings fell short
sinking its stock price by
20% Ariana mmore has been looking into
why consumers are shopping elsewhere
well it's important to think think about
how Shoppers at Target are looking for I
would say higher quality items and a lot
of targets merchandise is discretionary
items so think about your TVs your iPads
your electronics HomeGoods and things
like that which budget conscious
Shoppers aren't really looking for right
now they're spending their money on
toiletries and they're spending their
money on groceries which is what Walmart
is more known for so Target is going to
have to keep their eye on the Walmarts
and the Amazon it's going to be
interesting to see how this is going to
play out for the holiday season when
Shoppers do want the deepest discounts
and they want to see promotions earlier
because there are less days between
Thanksgiving and Christmas this year so
Shoppers don't have as much time to
figure out where they want to buy their
Christmas gifts and
merchandise Donald Trump is Po poised to
reshape the US education system he and
proposed education secretary Linda
McMahon are expected to expand tax
breaks that would make it easier for
parents to send their children to
private schools many conservatives say
these controversial school choice
programs give parents more options while
Democrats say it undermines the public
school system McMahon has been a vocal
proponent of school choice since
resigning as head of the small business
administration in Trump's first term
back in 2019 reporter Andy Sullivan has
been looking into how these incentives
would work a lot of States already have
these in place and by creating a federal
program like this it would really sort
of amplify it because they'd be able to
give away up to five billion dollar I
talked to one expert he said that would
cover about 600,000 people's tuition so
they have high hopes that they can pass
a tax break next year that will really
boost participation and significantly it
also apply in Democratic uh States like
New York that have not set up school
choice programs these programs right now
tend to be in places like Arizona
Florida dominated by Republicans
Democrats have opposed this so far but
they're not going to be in charge of
Congress next year so Republicans stand
a good chance of passing this also it
would probably be one tiny little line
in a massive tax bill that they're going
to advance so how might this impact
public school funding this tax break
that we are talking about wouldn't take
money away from federal funding which is
about $20 billion or so per year
wouldn't take money away from state or
local funding it would just give people
a tax break if they wanted to donate to
a scholarship now of course that tax
break means there's less money coming
into the federal government $5 billion
per year that's not a huge amount in the
grand scheme of things when we have a 6
trillion budget but you know that's $5
billion that we're not getting that we
could use for something else is School
Choice widely supported by conservatives
but it's not universally popular people
in rural areas don't like it so much
because you know there may not be a
private school if you live out in the
middle of nowhere in Nebraska voters
rejected vouchers in let's see uh
Kentucky Nebraska and Colorado in this
most recent election and two of those
are very Republican states whenever they
bring it up in Washington it doesn't get
far either republicans in Congress
rejected an idea to take Federal money
and make vouchers out of
[Music]
it today's recommended read is all about
Angela merkel's Memoir which hits
bookstores next week in excerpts
published in a German newspaper the
former Chancellor recalls her tricks for
dealing with Donald Trump including
asking the Pope's advice on how to
convince Trump not to quit the Paris
climate Accords Freedom memories 1954 to
2020 1 is out November 26th and a link
to our story is in the podcast
description and now that you're finished
listening to reuter's world news check
out reuter's eccon world this week
Carmel crims goes deep on what the
future looks like coexisting with AI you
can catch it on reuters.com the Reuters
app or wherever you listen to podcasts
we'll be back tomorrow with our daily
headline show for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or or the Reuters app and to make sure
you never miss an episode follow on your
favorite podcast player or download the
Reuters app
