today Israel's defense minister orders
the Army to prepare for Gaza resident
departure as some Arab American voters
say they're standing by Trump after his
shock proposal South Africa's president
prepares his state of ation in the face
of us opposition to a land ownership law
and Trump seeks to ban transgender
athletes from women's
sports it's Thursday February 6th this
is Reuters world news news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Jonah Green in New York and I'm tar
Oaks in
London Israel's defense minister Israel
Katz has ordered the Army to prepare a
plan to allow for the voluntary
departure of residents from the Gaza
Strip Israel's Channel 12 quoting him as
saying countries who opposed Israel's
military operations in Gaza should take
in the
Palestinians US president Donald Trump's
proposal to take over Gaza and resettle
Palestinians has drawn Global
condemnation his plan also got pushed
back from some republicans in Congress
including Senator ran Paul who tweeted I
thought we voted for America First the
fiercest comments were perhaps from
United Nations Secretary General Antonio
gutterz it is vital to stay true to the
B Rock of international law it is
essential to avoid any form of ethnic
cleansing Trump's top AIDS staunchly
defended his proposal but backed away
from some elements of the plan here's
White House Press Secretary Caroline
levit the president has not committed to
putting boots on the ground in Gaza he
has also said that the United States is
not going to pay for the rebuilding of
Gaza while arab-american leaders are
criticizing Trump's proposal some voters
in the community still think he's the
best option for peace reporter Andrea
shalal has been talking to them to find
out why a lot of Arab Americans and
Muslims that voted for Donald Trump
credit president Trump for helping to
bring about the ceasefire after months
and months and months of less than
Stellar results by the Biden
Administration it was really on the eve
of the inauguration that this ceasefire
was reached and people also said to me
look we know this is how this guy oper
Ates right he says things that are
provocative like buying Greenland we
know it's a negotiating position I spoke
with someone earlier today Yahya Basha
who's a medical doctor and founder of
Muslims for American progress who said
he wasn't surprised I don't I don't
regret anything I did to get Trump
elected and I hope we see positive signs
in the future it's there have been
proposals like this before so some
people remain skeptical that those plans
will actually be
[Music]
executed a second federal judge has
issued an order blocking Donald Trump's
plan to curtail Birthright
citizenship saying no court in the
United States has ever endorsed the
Republican president's interpretation of
the
Constitution the Panama Canal Authority
says it has not made any changes to
charges All rights to cross the canal
the announcement comes after the state
department said that US Government ships
could make the crossing without paying
any
fees the Trump Administration has been
toying with the plan for reform at the
World Health Organization including
putting an American in charge of it as a
condition for the US remaining a member
that's according to two sources familiar
with the plan and a document reviewed by
Reuters and Argentina says it will also
out of the wh is President Javier mle
citing deep differences over Health
Management particularly the covid-19
[Music]
pandemic over on markets China is
challenging Donald Trump's tariffs at
the World Trade Organization and
shippers are warning of chaos Comm crims
is here with more so beijing's move is
the first stage of a dis dispute process
but its ability to get a ruling at the
WTO is going to be styed because the
panel that settles trade disputes
doesn't really function after the Trump
Administration blocked appointments to
it during his first term meanwhile
there's still a lot of confusion over
what Trump's cancellation of a dutyfree
exemption means for low value packages
from China and Hong Kong the
cancellation affects Chinese retailers
like Sheen and timu and shippers are
trying to navigate it all the US Postal
Service did say it will now accept
Parcels from China and Hong Kong
reversing a 12-hour suspension that had
added to the confusion and if you want
to hear more about tff's trade and what
Trump wants from it all check out this
week's episode of reuter's econ world
it's out today on reuters.com the
Reuters app or wherever you get your
[Music]
podcasts South African president siril
Raposa is set to give his state of the
nation address later today
his speech coming a few weeks after
signing into law a bill aimed at
addressing racial disparities in land
ownership president Trump and his
adviser Elon Musk on fans Trump posted
without citing evidence that South
Africa is confiscating land and certain
classes of people were being treated
very badly saying he would suspend Aid
to the country over the policy musk who
is South African born accuses is this
home country of having openly racist
ownership
laws Tim Cox is our chief correspondent
for southern Africa so land ownership in
South Africa is about 80% privately held
it's mostly in white hands so of the of
the sort of Freehold Farmland that's out
there about 75% of it is owned by white
farmers and white people make up about
8% of the population compared to 80% of
black people and and black Farmers own
only about 4% so you can see from those
figures how skewed the ownership is this
is a product of the apartheid history of
South Africa the bill seeks to redress
these very Stark disparities by giving
the government the power to effectively
Force land owners to give up their land
in some rare cases even without any
compensation so far what we've had is a
willing buyer willing seller model where
by the government tries to to get hold
of land and then redistribute it to
Black Farmers by by paying for it and on
a voluntary basis the trouble is this
just has done almost nothing to address
the situation and so what are Trump and
musk's complaints here so Trump's claim
was that there's already been land
seizures going on under this law but
there's not been even a single acre yet
because they've only just passed it last
month musk has been talking up this idea
of of a a genocide against white Farmers
this is an idea that tries to connect
robberies on remote Farms where in which
a farmer gets killed with the Land
Reform and saying that actually they
they're connected problem with this is
that there's about 20,000 murders in
South Africa every year and only 50 of
them are of white Farmers so it doesn't
really stack up it's often not really
clear what their complaint is but
certainly the white Farmers that they're
speaking to their complaint is that this
nil compensation is going to violate
property rights and scare off
investment the war on women's sports is
over president Trump assigned an
executive order attempting to exclude
transgender girls and women from female
sports in schools schools that don't
comply immediately can be cut off from
federal funding supporters of the New
Order say it will restore fairness in
sports but critics and activists say it
infringes on the rights of a tiny
minority of athletes for a lot of trans
youth out there just means once again
their country's declaring war on them
Kristen warley is a transgender former
professional
cyclist this is Trump's fourth executive
order since taking office that restricts
transgender rights reporter Dan trada
has been looking at why this measure may
go over differently than some of the
others in general terms the trans issue
has been very partisan that is Democrats
have supported trans rights and
Republicans have sought to restrict them
in this case there may be a little bit
more of an overlap this issue when Trump
spoke about it at his rallies during the
campaign got huge Applause he spent
millions and millions of dollars on an
advertisement that spoke to this issue
so it it seems to have found an audience
beyond the other trans issues the order
is a novel interpretation of Title 9 can
you explain how Title 9 is a federal law
that bans discrimination in education on
the basis of sex Obama and Biden both
had interpreted that to mean a ban on
discrimination against transgender
people Trump now is trying to reverse
that and say that what Title 9 really
does is protects non-transgender women
and girls from competing against friends
women and girls in sports it will be
interesting to see what the courts
[Music]
say and for today's recommended read a
Roy's exclusive on how Ukraine has seen
a marked improvement in the accuracy of
Russia's North Korean missiles there's a
link to the story in the Pod description
and for more on any of the stories from
today check out reuters.com
or the rers app don't forget to follow
us on your favorite podcast player we'll
be back tomorrow with our daily headline
show
