[Music]
wailing men and women examine disfigured
bodies using the light from their cell
phones they desperately search a
darkened hospital morg for their loved
ones meanwhile a mated men and women
with torn clothing and dirt caked faces
spill out on the streets some hug loved
ones in
tears these have become the familiar
sites in rounds from Syria this week
after Bashar al-assad's regime was swept
aside by rebels with the ending of a
dictatorship that lasted decades
thousands of prisoners are
free the brutal picture of what happened
during their captivity is only beginning
to be understood by the
world on this special episode of
reuter's world news we speak to one of
our own journalists who was arrested by
the Syrian security police in 2011 we
find out what it was like to have a
reporting assignment turn into an
interrogation the shattered Humanity he
saw inside Syria's security apparatus
and now to witness the regime topple I'm
Tara Oaks in
[Music]
Liverpool a warning to our listeners
that some of you may find the details of
this interview distressing with
references to torture and
abuse my guest today is San khidi Suman
is a chief correspondent for Jordan and
Syria last weekend he was one of the
first journalists in the world to report
that Bashar al-assad's regime had
crumbled but he wasn't in the country
San had been expelled from Syria back in
2011 after being arrested by the secret
police hey San thank you so much for
joining us today so take us back to 2011
you had worked for Reuters years ahead
of the this Syria assignment how did you
end up getting sent there I was assigned
by the editors to go to Dara where
anti-g government riots protest was
starting which were met with the
security forces firing on Peaceful
protesters who were actually protesting
at the arrest of young basically
teenagers who had written graffiti on
the walls calling for the for the
downfall of aad
and it sort of spiraled and there was a
protest that was called by Civic
organizations and the residents of daab
to call for the authorities to release
these young kids from prison and it
actually escalated there were reports
coming that the Syrian Army was was
bringing reinforcements and they were
firing on protesters what have you and D
is actually literally a TOA drive from
hman almost so I just me and a driver we
took a taxi and we crossed the border
and we were there but we were there
later in in in the evening when things
had subsided and I actually checked into
a hotel in D itself the city where a few
hours before there was shooting of
protesters and actually I think two or
three people had had had been killed
amongst them so after that first night
what was it like At first being there
reporting on these protests there there
was a tense calm we thought that it was
going to basically was under control
because this was Syria under Al Assad
where protests were usually forcefully
clamped down on and we thought that that
was the end of it so I I was actually
the next day I Was preparing to leave
back to Aman because things appeared
normal but some of the residents and the
contacts I had in D told me that to stay
at least for the funerals of the
protesters who were killed by Security
Forces so I went there and actually
that's where it started
escalating and you know there were
thousands of people who appeared at the
cemetery calling for the downfall on the
regime and that's when they were also
again met with fire with bullets and it
escalated so I decided then to to not to
go back to the hotel because the
intelligence were there I stayed with
residents who who protected me and I was
able to to cover the unfolding of the
protests the early beginnings of of what
was the Syrian conflict the Cradle of of
the revolutioners the anti-assad
protesters called it and this escalation
this beginning this was in the wake of
the so-called Arab Spring outing of
dictators in Tunisia and in Egypt did it
start to feel like this could be the end
for the Assad regime in Syria back then
it didn't initially because syrians at
the time would never have never thought
of that a regime that was as pervasive
and brutal with such a pervasive
security would actually fall so I mean
at the time it actually started by
protests against the governor of Dar
calling for his downfall and then it
actually escalated and they started
emulating the chance of the the Arab
Uprising calling for the downfall of the
regime but initially the first few days
it was more of a popular Uprising that
was starting to unfold and you had other
parts of Syria also that were that were
waging peaceful protests at the time
calling for Democratic change can you
tell us about that moment of them
finding you on the street did you have
any idea what was going on I mean I I
realized that that moment that I that
had actually been arrested and that I I
did not for a sec I didn't know what the
future held for me because I I just I
had heard a lot t i of of how Syria
among stood out how Syria was very
different from any other Arab state in
the brutality and the repressiveness of
its of its Security
Forces San was taken by two plain
clothed security officers who put him in
an unmarked car taking him to an
intelligence facility in the heart of
Damascus not only as makat a colloquial
Arabic term for the secret police where
he was held beaten and interrogated for
4
days San after your release in 2011 you
wrote for reuter about what you had
heard and seen during your detention
we'll put a link for pod listeners in
the description in it you talk about the
human degradation you witnessed of your
fellow prisoners can you tell us about
that um what it was glimpses that I the
voices I heard of of of inmates who were
being tortured being dragged I was in a
solitary prison uh in moments when
prison wardens would open the door uh to
throw in a small piece of bread but
mostly it was the the the the the human
anguish that I I heard at Night by whom
I would assume were people who who were
being tortured Beyond The Suffering you
could hear all around you would you be
able to talk about what you yourself
endured there I I was tortured in
different ways I was interrogated at
first and then I was beaten I was put uh
I was they used electric shocks on me
and various other forms of torture after
after interrogating me but I was
resilient enough because I during a
reporting stint in my early years in
Reuters I was in Kuwait and I had met a
lot of torture victims and and the
ability to to switch off is something
that that sometimes people who have not
been subjected to torture do not realize
that you there is that system within
human beings where they can actually
close the circuits within their their
their body where in fact pain they can
effectively seal pain after after a
certain it's like almost a electric
circuit that you can bring down and I
believe that that was one of the factors
that helped me to endure this thank
goodness you were released how did how
did it feel when you were released and
you managed to leave Syria I was lucky
to be honest because I had interviewed
his the King of Jordan and his and queen
Ria years before and I was a prominent
journalist and I it was their
intervention with Assad and his wife
that actually saved me and that was the
reason I because I only stayed for 4
days contacted yesterday Jordan's Royal
Court did not comment on its
role and this is all after having just
gone there just initially what you
thought was one day one protest in Dera
how did you feel when you finally got
home after this
I I I felt that I was reborn again uh I
mean there are very few people who who
actually come who are
released or even come alive after after
going to these main security branches
headquarters in Syria so I was I
considered really myself to have had
another life a new lease of life and
that I was really reborn again and I was
very grateful
the formal reason Syrian authorities
gave Reuters for San's detention at the
time was that he lacked the proper work
permits Syria's government and president
Bashar alassad consistently rejected
accusations of torture and extrajudicial
killings during the Civil War that the
United Nations said claimed hundreds of
thousands of lives San says the
assertion that he needed work permits
was untrue prior to his arrest he
regularly went to Syria on assignment
and says he was accredited with Syria's
Ministry of information and was on a
permanent list of pressing vertiz to
cover official events a spokesperson for
Reuters says the news agency is deeply
committed to freedom of the press
journalists must be free to report the
news in the public interest without fear
of harassment or harm wherever they
are and how about today have you had to
deal with any lasting effects of your
experience I've I'm when I look at the
images of people who in the first few
hours after the downfall of Assad and
the release of inmates from these
various dissension centers for a split
second I thought I could have been one
of these people if I was lucky if I had
been lucky enough to to have survived so
I I was I was again I felt I felt very
sad but also very grateful that I
actually was was one of the very few who
who survived with my mental sanity and
my and my well-being and just this past
week these 10 days the world generally
seem startled by this rapid advance from
the rebels and Assad flying to Russia
were you as startled as everyone else
how did it feel seeing that news break
uh I was I to be honest there's still a
sense of disbelief that I share with
many syrians who just still have not
actually come to terms with it it was
bizarre that night Assad had fallen we
were I was on on duty with my colleagues
it was it was me ironically out of out
of the small team were actually that
that night I was there calling two
people who actually confirmed you said
yes as said had left Damascus and I I
was I was shaking you know when I was
typing the the snap you know almost I
couldn't believe what I was writing you
know that this was we were lucky we we
won the timings by a great I I I I sort
of pride myself in in hopefully the the
fact that we were the first writers was
the first to bring the news of his
[Music]
downfall and when you see not just the
prisoners but the family searching for
missing prisoners and how do you feel
seeing those images and knowing what
it's like in
[Music]
there it saddens me that the world that
it took so long for for this to end and
when I look at the the families of who
were just are actually who know that
their sons and daughters have perished
but they're just looking for for just
one material piece for even a piece of
paper Pro
of of something or the other or even
live in in the hope that they might
still be alive do you think that these
these images everyone has seen but also
the reputation you were talking about
before of already this reputation for
brutality of the Assad regime do you
think those sort of memories will shape
Syria's new future yes of course they
will I'm hopeful that Syria will will
tread the path of countries that have
found a path in reconciliation
away from Revenge and
[Music]
retribution Bashar al-assad has not
delivered any public remarks since he
fled to Russia after the
uprising Reus has reported that in a
call with Iran's president he claimed
that the Revolt was part of an effort to
rraw the region by the West echoing his
view of the Revolt as a foreign-backed
conspiracy
the main rebel commander says that he
will dissolve the security forces of the
former regime he vows to close its
prisons and hunt down anyone involved in
torture or killing of
[Music]
detainees thank you so much to San for
sharing his story and expertise on the
region with us there's a link in the
description to his account of his
experience from 2011 you can read more
more on the developing story from Syria
on reuters.com or the Reuters
app Reuters world news is produced by
Jonah green Gail Isa Sharon R garon
David Spencer and Christopher Wall
Jesper our senior producers are me Tara
Oaks and Carl gmans our executive
producer is Leela dezza engineering
sound design and music composition are
all by Josh
summer we'll be back on Monday with our
daily headline show make sure to follow
us on your favorite podcast player or
download the roter app
[Music]
