today strong winds were expected to
found the Flames again in Los Angeles
zensi says he's ready to exchange North
Korean soldiers for ukrainians held in
Russia and this week's Space Race begins
with a whimper not a bang as SpaceX and
blue origin delay their
launches it's Monday January 13th this
is reuter's world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tor Oaks in the
[Music]
Bol fire ravaged Los Angeles is bracing
for a new series of Santana winds that
could threaten the progress they've made
LA County fire chief Anthony these
winds combined with low humidities and
low fuel moistures will keep the fire
threat in all of Los Angeles County very
high and Maron adding that evacuated
areas may not be reopened until red flag
conditions are lifted on Thursday the
National Weather Service forecasts that
renewed Winds of up to 50 to 70 mph
could last until Wednesday after a CALA
weekend our reporter Nathan frino has
been in the vicinity of the Palisades
fire on Saturday on the Eastern edge of
the Palisades fire I saw helicopters
swoop in dousing Flames with water drops
over steep hillsides air tankers also
flew in dropping flame retardant over
the fire the pink material covered
streets homes and even vehicles in the
mandaville canyon dozens of firefighters
patrolled that Canyon protecting homes
from encroaching flames and raking up
dried brush and other fuels that would
have otherwise helped spread the fire
Susanna Corda is a 53-year-old publicist
who's lived in Tanga Northwest of Los
Angeles for 17 years she called her
evacuation from the Palisades fire
absolutely horrifying she said a wall of
flames extended above on both sides of
the road as she her husband Scott and
her dog miles fled we're absolutely
terrified with the stronger winds in the
forecast CA fears they could lose
everything so we're just praying and
hoping that doesn't happen I think it's
important to highlight that this is only
the beginning the fires are still
burning fire ERS are still arriving from
out of state and even out of the country
to relieve their colleagues the death
toll is still Rising residents are still
in a State of Shock and the recovery is
going to take a long time officials have
warned the entire Los Angeles County
population of nearly 10 million that
anyone may still be ordered to evacuate
from the flames and toxic smoke even so
schools except in some mandatory
evacuation areas are set to reopen today
for more on the Fire
check out our weekend episode of Reuters
world news it's available wherever you
get your podcasts and linked in the pot
[Music]
description in Qatar Israel and Hamas
have been handed a final draft of a Gaza
ceasefire and hostage agreement it comes
after an early morning breakthrough in
the Doha talks according to an official
briefed on the
negotiations both sides have kept a
tight lid on the details amid a push to
get a deal over the Finish Line before
Donald Trump takes
[Applause]
office populist Croatian president Zoran
milanovich claiming victory in the
second round of the country's
presidential election setting him up for
a second term in the largely ceremonial
post milanovich a former prime minister
has previously confronted prime minister
Andre penovich over foreign and public
policy es with the two frequently
trading
[Music]
[Applause]
insults oil prices extended gains for a
third session on Monday with Brent
Rising above $80 a barrel to its highest
in more than four months as investors
Ponder the full implications of a latest
round of us and UK sanctions on Russian
producers the move could really bite
since its sanctions are n another 160
tankers of Russia's Shadow Fleet taking
the total to
270 previous tankers hit by sanctions
were severely ciled in where they could
travel and some ended up being scrapped
analysts say the sanctions will push
China and India to Source more crude
from the Middle East Africa and the
[Music]
Americas Ukraine's president vadir zi
using his video address to send a
message to North Korea's Kim
Jong seninsky says K is ready to hand
over captured North Korean soldiers but
only of North Korea can facilitate their
exchange for ukrainians held in Russia
Mike call it white covers the conflict
there have been North Korean soldiers
fighting alongside the Russians in this
region called ksk where Ukraine launched
a fory last August this has gradually
kind of crept out this new news it
wasn't sort of announced by anyone the
Russians still don't confirm it but it
leaked out because the ukrainians
realized they weren't just fighting
Russians they were also fighting North
Korean troops there are estimated to be
some 11,000 there fighting alongside the
Russians and so today came out and said
they estimated that already there have
been 3,000 killed or wounded North
Korean soldiers in this particular
battle so the attrition rate is very
high and really it's a very interesting
development in this War because it is
part of the some would say most would
say pretty dangerous escalation as we're
coming to an important period with
possible peace negotiation sometime in
2025 are those possible peace talks and
the arrival of Donald Trump in the White
House all playing a part here I think so
I think that it's fairly widely accepted
now that Ukraine launched this incursion
into ksk in the first place in order to
improve its bargaining position for when
negotiations finally begin which I think
they probably will have to at some stage
the overall Narrative of the war is the
Russians certainly through 2024 were
taking the upper hand and they have
gained more territory than they have in
previous years in the war and Ukraine is
very keen to have something to bargain
with as they go into possible
[Music]
negotiations no liftoff today anomalies
during the mission countdown window have
pushed back the debut launch of Jeff
bezos's blue origin new Glenn rocket by
at least a day the moment was supposed
to be a major step towards a goal of
competing with Elon musk's SpaceX in the
satellite launch market new Glenn is
roughly twice the size of spacex's
Falcon 9 but not as powerful as spacex's
next Generation Starship rocket which
will launch his seventh test later this
week after that was also delayed and is
now scheduled for Wednesday Starship is
also at the heart of musk's dream to
colonize Mars reporter Joey roulette has
been looking into that mission Elon Musk
obviously has a huge presence in the
Trump World and his Starships want to go
to Mars that's what they're chiefly
designed for and right now under the
Artemis program that was kind of seen as
a stepping point to get to that later
goal of going to Mars but under the
Trump Administration there's a lot of
talk about many different goals one
being let's just focus solely on Mars
let's use these Starships to get there
and that of course raises a lot of
questions about the other parts of
NASA's emous program like their SLS
rocket the space launch system so are we
likely to see a mission to Mars in the
coming years if that happens under Trump
it's not going to be like any other
program in the in the past he's been
talking about making some kind of human
Mars mission by 20128 there's a lot of
people who don't think that that's
possible based on how long it takes um
spacecraft to develop in the past um but
of course SpaceX is a wild card because
they move very very quickly in
spacecraft development but launching
humans to Mars is no easy task it's
unlike anything humans have ever done
before when you go it takes about 7 to
nine months and that's a small window
where in the planet's align and the
ideal path to get there um and then once
you're there you have to spend two years
there before the planets realign into
that path again and you can come back so
that's a very very risky ambitious
mission that's not to be taken lightly
this potential shift from the Moon to
Mars is it an either or situation I
think these two programs these two
Ambitions will be in parallel instead of
being one or the other um because if we
remember the Artemis program was largely
created under Trump's first term and the
strategy there was to use the moon as a
stepping point to get to Mars as a
proven ground to test Technologies on on
the surface that could then be used to
Mars I think that's a reason why they
might keep elements of the Moon program
in
[Music]
place and time for today's recommended
read which is all about the world's
largest gathering of humanity the 2
million Hindus are expected for their
first ritual dip in freezing Waters at
the Confluence of sacred Rivers as the
mahak Festival begins you can see
pictures and read more about the event
by following the link in the Pod
description for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app don't forget to
follow us on your favorite podcast
player and we'll be back tomorrow with
our daily headline show
