today China hits back at the US with
tariffs after deals with Canada and
Mexico Israel's Benjamin Netanyahu meets
with Donald Trump in the US Elon musk's
Department of government efficiency
strikes us aid plus an indigenous
community in Brazil welcomes its first
movie
theater it's Tuesday February 4th this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Tor Oaks in Liverpool and I'm
Christopher walljasper in
[Music]
Chicago let's kick off weird Market it's
another big tariff day with China in
Focus additional 10% tariffs across all
Chinese Imports into the US came into
effect at 12 1: a.m. eastern time today
within minutes China's finance ministry
said it would impose levies of 15% for
us coal and LNG and 10% for crude oil
farm equipment and some Autos those
tariffs are set to start on February
10th giving Washington and Beijing some
time to try and reach a deal US
president Donald Trump plans to speak to
Chinese president XI Jin ping later in
the week it comes after yesterday's
Whiplash where with Trump's sweeping
tariffs on Canada and Mexico rocking
markets before agreeing to a 30-day
pause with the two neighboring countries
our economics editor for the Americas
Dan Burns explains what went down midm
morning we got this announcement that a
30-day reprieve had been struck with
Mexico after Mexican president Shin Bal
had agreed to reinforce their border
with 10,000 Mexican troops and then
bookending the day uh we got a
comparable announcement from Canadian
Prime Minister Trudeau so what does
Trump want from these tariff
negotiations and did he get it well it
would appear that he did achieve one of
the goals which was he wanted a much
more forceful commitment from Mexico and
Canada at border security both for uh
the flow of migrants and then the flow
of fenel which the White House has tried
to make the case that Canada has had an
increasing role in the flow of fentanyl
it's not quite clear that that's the
case but that has been something that he
has said repeatedly same time Trump
himself when asked about this always
veers into other economic complaints he
has particularly with Canada right now
he talks about the Canadian trade
deficit being too high it's about $64
billion and if it wasn't for oil it
would actually be us Trade Surplus but
he exaggerates the size of it but he
says that the US is essentially
subsidizing Canada and it clearly irks
him and you can hear more about tariffs
and trade Wars on the next episode of
reuter's econ World out later this week
you can catch it on the roter app or
wherever you get your
[Music]
podcasts president Trump is ordering the
creation of a sovereign wealth fund that
he says could potentially buy Tik Tok
typically such funds rely on a country's
budget surplus to make investments the
US however operates at a
deficit Trump is invoking a wartime law
to deport immigrants alleged to be gang
members without Court hearings the 1798
alien enemies Act was last used to
justify internment camps during World
War
II El Salvador has offered to house in
its jails dangerous criminals from
anywhere in the world were deported by
the US that's according to Secretary of
State Marco Rubio after talks with the
Central American country's
leader Nigel farage's right-wing reform
UK party has overtaken Britain's
governing labor party to become the most
popular political party in a new
[Music]
poll the Eastern Congo Rebel Alliance
that includes the M23 has declared a
ceasefire starting today Congo accuses
Rwanda of supporting the M23 Rebels and
is seeking sanctions to curb the
conflict Rwanda has said it's defending
itself against the threat from congales
militias without directly commenting on
whether its troops have crossed the
border on Santorini families are
boarding fairies and taking additional
schedule flights to leave after dozens
of Tremors shook the Greek island for
several
days and Trump is today expected to stop
us engagement with the United Nations
human rights Rights Council as well as
continer funding PR for the UN
Palestinian relief agency
unra Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu meets with US president Donald
Trump in Washington today in a bid to
reset relations he's the first world
leader to meet Trump since the
inauguration and the two will have
plenty to discuss from the future of the
Gaza ceasefire to Iran and Saudi Arabia
Matt spalik covers the state department
BB and Trump during their overlapping
administrations had had quite a good
relationship overall in the first term
Trump did hand Netanyahu a series of
major successes including relocating the
US Embassy to Jerusalem and signing the
Abraham Accords Trump remains a staunch
supporter of Israel but he's also
insisted that he wants to end the wars
in the Middle East and claimed credit
for helping broker the Gaza ceasefire
deal between Israel and Hamas he also
hopes to Kickstart an effort toward a
historic normalization deal between
Israel and Saudi Arabia so all these
have created a kind of uncertainty over
how much leeway Trump will give
Netanyahu who's also facing pressure
from the farri right members of his
coalition to restart the fighting in
Gaza to fulfill his pledge to destroy
Hamas how might this meeting influence
phase two of the negotiations between
Israel and Hamas it's a very complex
puzzle that uh both of these leaders are
going to have to deal with um as they
move forward the second phase of
negotiations for a ceasefire deal are
set to begin this week Trump in his
overal office comments has just made
clear that he has no assurances that
that deal will hold his Middle East
Envoy who was also president of the Oval
Office Steven witkoff said we're hopeful
and that's about as far as I can go
right now if n does want to return to
war it may be very hard to hold him back
but Trump does have a lot of Leverage to
at least delay that kind of move and
keep negotiations going for the for the
moment at
least this is a constitutional crisis
Senator Chris Murphy joined by other
Democratic lawmakers outside the
shuttered offices of the US agency for
International
development they were there to protest
Elon musk's cuts to the agency calling
it an abuse of power people get to
decide how their taxpayer money is spent
Elon Musk does not get to
decide musk has targeted usaid for
closure in his mission to downsize
government spending on Monday staff
received an internal email saying the
agency's main office was going to be
closed
a senior White House official says Trump
is considering merging usaid into the
state
department Steve Holland covers the
White House this is an agency that
expands the reach of the United States
worldwide to help people recover from
various disasters illnesses the
Republicans feel like this money is
being misspent it needs to be monitored
more closely now I I I think we we're
seeing numbers that us foreign aid
amounts to a very small amount compared
to the overall budget but this is
Trump's efforts to clamp greater control
on the federal government basically now
what Authority does musk have to do this
he's not an elected official in fact
he's not even been confirmed by the
Senate there there's bound to be a a
fight over this between musk and
Democrats in the Congress uh what the
White House is telling us now is that
musk is a what is known as a special
government employee meaning that he acts
on behalf of the president but he's not
drawing a paycheck so for now musk has
Trump's support but this can always
[Music]
change the indigenous community of inha
bay in Brazil's Northern manous has
inaugurated its first movie
theater the building seats 150 and is
made in the style of a traditional Hut
apart from solar panels to help power
the cinema indigenous producer and
creator of a project Tes Kama says that
locals now have the opportunity to be
the protagonists of Their Own
[Music]
Story and for today's recommended read
to Argentina where farmers are battling
a drought and a shrinking Harvest
it could become a major problem for a
country which relies heavily on grain
exports but much needed foreign currency
to prop up its economy there's a link to
that story in the PO description for
more on any of the stories from today
check out reuters.com or the Reuters app
don't forget to follow us on your
favorite podcast player we'll be back
tomorrow with our daily headline show
