[Music]
hey everyone uh I just want to wish you
all a Happy Black Friday and small
business Saturday and Cyber Monday to
all those who observe here in the US
Black Friday used to be this very
special tradition one where you would
wake up the morning after Thanksgiving
heat up some pie and watch Americans try
to kill each other for a flat screen TV
but consumers have changed and so have
their shopping house
not to mention technology the economy
the global supply chain you know all
that so that's what we're here to
discuss today on this weekend episode of
rers world news how are consumers habits
changing how is the industry responding
and what might the future of buying
stuff look like I'm Jonah Green in New
York
[Music]
I'm joined Now by Ariana McLemore who
covers e-commerce sadar caval who covers
big box retailers and Helen Reed who
covers retail apparel all across Europe
hello everybody thanks for joining us
today thanks for having us hey it's nice
to be here great to be here my first big
question is Black Friday it's a date uh
people go shopping on it but is Black
Friday still a thing is it important to
retailers Sid let's start with you
because you're the big box guy so Black
Friday has uh traditionally been the
start of the holiday season and it
currently Still Remains the biggest
shopping day in terms of sales but
what's happened since the pandemic is
that there's been this acceleration
towards online shopping so while Black
Friday is traditionally been a day where
people used to shop in stores it has
become less so since the pandemic just
because most of the shopping nowadays is
done on online and it's also become it's
kind of the traditional start to the
holiday season is also been stretched I
mean nowadays you see retailers offering
deals for the holiday as early as
October so that's kind of brought
forward what the start of the holiday
season is and so Black Friday has sort
of lost importance but still it's a
tradition and so people still like to go
to the stores see what's available and
Shop products there one thing we've been
hearing from Shoppers is like where are
the deepest deals and online shopping
brings a lot more convenience right you
can compare a lot of stores a lot faster
compared to hopping around at different
stores on foot or driving around town to
figure out where the best deals are one
thing we're also seeing this year is not
only that more people are shopping
online but more people are shopping
directly from their phones so think
about how much you may shop on an Amazon
that has basically an ocean of
merchandise really deep deals some
people think it's easier to just have
their Christmas list and hunt for those
deals directly from their phones we're
also seeing more people shop for
stocking stuffers from places like Shen
and timu so I think the biggest story
this holiday season is where and when
our Shoppers who are price conscious and
who may not have as much money in their
pockets this year where are they going
to find the deepest discounts Helen do
you want to jump in here in Europe Black
Friday is kind of a tradition that's
been imported from the US so it's never
as huge over here as it is in the States
but it has been growing year on year and
we're seeing some new retailers and
Brands uh start doing Black Friday deals
earlier as well but is there still a
desire to splurge or is everybody just
sad like me and and spends all their
money on groceries yeah I think that's
the key question is how much are people
actually going to spend on Black Friday
and throughout the holiday shopping
season one study ahead of Black Friday
uh in France asked French consumers how
much they plan to spend on Black Friday
and the result was actually less than
last year so the average was â‚¬
388 which was 28 less than a year ago so
there's signs like that that people are
still projecting their spending down on
last year actually what we're seeing
Jenna is there's a bation in the
consumer right like we're seeing the top
earners continue to spend you know the
upper income households continue to
spend but at the same time the
low-income households they're being very
choiceful is the words I've heard a lot
retail Executives use and so what's
really propping some of these retailers
up is the strength of some of these
upper income households and so even even
retailers like Walmart which you would
associate with having a more lowincome
customer base because of the prices that
they offer we're seeing a shift towards
more upper income households these are
households that they claim earn more
than 100,000 a year shopping more at
Walmart so you mentioned timu and shien
and anytime I Google anything they seem
to be the first results to come up at
least at the top of Google uh what has
been their impact on how people consume
well I think that visib
in search is really exactly what they've
been investing in both teu and Shen have
invested a lot of their marketing
spending on what's called paid search
which means basically bidding on certain
keywords so that your ad appears high up
when somebody types in a keyword like
shopping online or cheap clothes online
and that's massively increased their
visibility and the click rate on their
products and it's also made that type of
marketing kind of more costly for for
the whole industry because of the the
kind of competition for certain words
what's interesting is we're seeing both
of those platforms bidding quite heavily
on competitors keywords as well so both
tiu and Sheen will bid on words like
Walmart clothes so that they're more
likely to appear in a search even when
someone is searching for Walmart clothes
their product might appear
and that's quite a usual tactic quite a
common tactic in retail but marketing
experts say that they're using it more
than average and to Helen's point this
bidding that they're doing not only is
it driving up the cost of advertising
online for other retailers but retailers
have had to reconfigure or reorganize
who and how they're marketing to
Shoppers so we've also seen some
apparel retailers start trying to
reinvest in SMS marketing or email
marketing to their existing customers
because one thing they've also seen is
that it's really hard to compete with
Shen and timu especially timu on price
right where if you are selling a shirt
for $20 and Shen and timu are marketing
shirts for 10 and $5 nine times out of
10 a customer is going to pick the
cheaper one if they don't have an
understanding of the quality differences
there's a big debate around
sustainability especially when it comes
to fast fashion and now it seems like
with timu and shien it's becoming even
faster so is there still this growing
conscientiousness about waste and
sustainability especially when it comes
to you know gen Z the the interesting
thing about gen Z is they are very aware
of like sustainability and they want to
purchase from more sustainable retailers
but the reality of it is when you think
about college students when you think
about high schoolers and the merchandise
that they can afford Shen and timu are
right at the prices that they can buy
from and I think that's one of the
things we've been looking at over the
last few years is where is the
disconnect between what j z is saying
about sustainability and where they're
actually shopping yeah I would just
characterize that as jenzer con money
where their mouth is I would just add
that since you know there was this big
push towards sustainability during the
pandemic you know because of the insane
amounts of shopping people were doing
and the waste it was producing but that
has slowly ebbed away and has also lost
focus at companies themselves just
because inflation has been so rampant
over the past two years that people are
just so focused on price that
sustainability has fallen down the
ladder in terms of just the price
priority I think what's Difficult about
the sustainability question is that
consumers might be less willing to pay a
premium for sustainable or less
environmentally impactful products but
equally I think we have to be quite
careful about it because I think it's
easy for companies to point to Consumers
as you know saying consumers preferences
have changed therefore we don't need to
do as much to to change
it's kind of a useful a handy excuse for
them as an elder Millennial I'm of
course fascinated with jenz because
they're different than my generation
which as everybody knows is the best
generation but are these youngsters only
you know buying things on Tik Tok I
would say the biggest difference is that
Jin Z has kind of led the way in getting
in shopping directly from their phones
and you kind of alluded to that with Tik
Tok which has a feature called Tik Tock
shop it's their e-commerce arm um and
it's essentially just that you're
shopping on this basically a social
media platform a lot of the things that
you can get on Shen and teu you can find
right there on Tik Tok shop but one
thing I've also seen is this push
against overc consumption and only
buying what you need and not buying so
much and I I think j z is talking about
that a little bit more at least the the
older end of the genz spectrum just like
to add I mean this is just my analysis
of having spoken to a bunch of people
just on the geny consumer so what we've
really seen is I guess they're they're
they spend a lot of money more on like
experiences right like they're they're
spending more money on dining out travel
entertainment MH they also spend more on
their pets than other
Generations another thing I would add is
that Jin Z really values the personality
that is selling them merchandise
so you've seen a lot of celebrities
pushing out beauty products whether
that's Selena Gomez or Kylie Jenner and
that's one thing that's been really
interesting to me the the number of like
faces that have been put on products not
necessarily like retailers pushing
products out and that Trend also kind of
transs into Tik Tock shop where these
companies are doing what we call live
stream shopping right like people can
look at a video and a liveed video and
buy products directly from that video
it's so funny it's sort of like a modern
version of the Home Shopping Network
it's just it's kind of come full circle
yeah definitely the HSN um the QVC's of
the world are now like right in your
phone and now this is a full circle
moment where that's kind of why another
reason why more people are shopping
directly from apps and directly from
their smartphones why while we're being
all futuristic is AI part of this
conversation we've seen the AI Tools in
like customer service chatbots okay
we've seen the generative AI Tools in
some of the search features on retail
websites um even Amazon has rofus which
is supposed to be very personalized very
customized to the prime Shopper that's
using it the thing also with generative
AI is that it's so integrated in the
background that you don't know you're
using it mhm so I think a lot of
Shoppers don't know that they're using
gen I mean we've been we've been looking
at this angle for a long time right like
how does it help save costs for a
retailer or help save costs for any
company in general and you know the jwy
is still out one thing is that retailers
have been using AI for more than a
decade now okay to do a lot of
forecasting demand projections customer
research so they've been using models
where they feed in some data points and
it generates an outcome for them for
example if there are hes in Florida how
many generators should I be ordering in
or also like if I need to get products
quickly what's the best delivery route
to take so that I can get the product on
shelves quickly I mean so AI has been
working in the background for quite a
bit yeah uh one interesting area where
I've been seeing retailers and brands
use AI is in campaigns so mango for
example the Spanish fashion retailer
generated a whole campaign for its mango
teen collection using generative Ai and
so I think that this might be something
that will spread we'll see more Brands
using gen to create fashion campaigns
and that potentially has implications
for fashion photographers and for that
whole profession as well M I think there
will always be space for high fashioned
photographers because of their skill and
the big the the big names are obviously
brands in their own right but for
potentially for more the fast fashioned
Brands it might be an easy way to cut
costs if they can create some of their
campaigns using gen or assisted by gen
going back to supply chain issues over
the pandemic we learned a lot about the
global supply chain and how that
functions and how it breaks have
retailers learned any lessons by what
happened and I think this is related how
are they preparing for the potential of
new Trump tariffs okay so what happened
during the pandemic we just we realized
that many of our manufacturing bases are
way away from where you actually sell
the product you also realized how
fragile the ecosystem was and so since
then a lot of big us chains have made
efforts to move away from what we call
far Shoring towards near Shoring their
supply operations um and so we've seen
this move from major people like you
know say the Walmart and targets of the
world Walmart for instance is the
biggest importer of goods into the us
and we have seen them cut back
significantly on some of its China
sourcing and moving it to areas like
India Pakistan Bangladesh a slightly
closer but also to Mexico which is right
across the border just bring production
closer to their stores but also the
Trump effect has been looming High I
mean Trump's threatened tariffs and
proposed tariffs have also spurred of
this activity so the thing is retailers
are very worried about this and um are
trying to drastically move away from
some of these countries where these
tariffs would be really high but if you
look at the supply chain it's it's
really complex it's really complicated
especially since globalization it has
become even more complex and so it's
hard to unshackle yourself from some of
these places where you've invested
billions of dollars and so this has been
this is a big headache for some of these
companies and they're trying to navigate
that so what we're seeing is like I said
near Shoring and we're seeing more
locally derived products and souring and
so going forward what are some of the
big trends that we might not have got
into today that you'll be watching
closely one thing I'm looking out for
and you kind of touched on this earlier
in the conversation is this dynamic
between Trump's looming tariffs and the
dominous threshold which is a trade
exemption for merchandise that's shipped
into the US that's under a 00 so if you
think about companies like Sheen and
timu it's very easy to ship their
merchandise in for less than $800
because their merchandise is so cheap so
there's a lot of moving Parts there's a
lot of variables but that's going to be
something I'm keeping my eye on in the
next few weeks one Trend that I have
been following is the growth in resale
as a as a type of buying so
people buying secondhand items
particularly in the apparel space
there's been quite a few resale
marketplaces and online platforms that
have made it easier and also kind of
gamified resale a little bit and made it
easier for people to buy other people's
unwanted clothes so I've been kind of
looking into the the impact of that and
there's many forecasts out there some of
them quite optimistic potentially it's
certainly is something that the fast
fashioned retailers are cottoning on to
because a lot of them have launched
their own resale platforms we're
entering an era of trump again right and
a lot of his threats could go into
action including proposed tariffs on
Mexico and Canada and and China so I
would think this could potentially be
the season where you might find the
cheapest prices on products because over
the next few at least the next four
years if this stff is going to fact it
could significantly raise prices on
stuff like Electronics appliances
clothing everything that comes from
outside the US so my advice to Consumers
is log down your holiday shopping list
for the next three years if you can
right
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
now thanks to Ariana Helen and Sedar for
chatting with us you can read more on
their reporting on the global retail
industry on reuters.com Reuters world
news is produced by Gail Isa Sharon R
Garson David Spencer Christopher Wall
Jasper and me Jonah green our senior
producers are Tara Oaks and Carmel crans
our executive producer is Lea dzer sound
design and musical composition by Josh
summer we'll be back on Monday with our
daily headline show make sure to click
follow on your favorite podcast player
or download the Reuters app
