today Biden allows Ukraine to strike
Russia with long range us missiles China
suffers its second Mass Attack in a week
Trump and his cabinet picks celebrated
at a UFC fight in New York and climate
change talks get bogged down over
money it's Monday November 18th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes
every weekday I'm Carmel crims in
Dublin President Joe Biden is allowing
Ukraine to use Us weapons to strike deep
into Russian territory us officials have
told us the move has been approved in a
significant reversal of Washington's
policy the announcement comes as Russia
escalates its attacks over the weekend
it Unleashed its largest air strike on
Ukraine in almost 3
months the attacks targeted energy
infrastructure with power restrictions
now in place across
Ukraine Biden's decision comes just 2
months before president-elect Donald
Trump assumes office it's unclear if
Trump will reverse the policy which
focuses on long-range missiles known as
the Army tactical missile systems or
attack thems Mike Stone in Washington
has the story the prohibition to date
has been that the Ukrainian armed forces
have not been able to use attack thems
in any crossborder strike period that
has been the regulation that is what is
being removed here specifically and
what's going to occur is they're going
to be limited strikes into kers which is
where the Ukrainian troops have been
doing this incursion into Russia of
course the US stance is that this is in
response to Russia's escalation because
Russia began to employ North Korean
troops in a video message on Sunday
Ukrainian President Vladimir zalinski
did not react directly to the
reports instead he said an announcement
wasn't needed and that strikes are not
made with words the missiles will speak
for themselves so what does this mean
for UK UK my call at white covers the
conflict well for Ukraine it is a
significant development because the use
allows them to strike within Russian
territory up to 300 km which brings a
lot of sort of supply lines and depos
arms depos some air bases some troop
concentrations into range but the caveat
is is that a lot of Russia kit including
kind of their aircraft and arms depos
Etc are well beyond 300 km so it would
help disrupt Russian military operations
but I'm not sure it's sort of the game
Cher that would shift the war
convincingly in Ukraine's favor the
Kremlin Mike says this decision will sto
tension and deepen the involvement of
the United States in the conflict well
Russia has been warning against this
obviously it doesn't want it to happen
it basically says that should this
happen then it's proof that there is
direct NATO us and European involvement
in the conflict and we have lawmakers
unsurprisingly today sort of warning of
the risks of World War I and a
significant escalation so it is it is a
risky move but I'm not sure that the
Russians would push too far ahead of
Trump's arrival in the White
[Music]
House china is reeling from a second
Mass Attack in a week a former student
went on a stabbing Rampage at a
vocational College in Eastern China
killing eight people and injuring 17 the
21-year-old was arrested at the scene
and confessed according to police the
incident comes just days after a man
rammed his car into a crowd outside a
sports Stadium killing 35
people lebanon's Hezbollah has confirmed
its media relations Chief Muhammad afif
was killed by an Israeli strike on a
central Bay route building it's a rare
move from Israel which doesn't tend to
hit Hezbollah Personnel who don't have
clear military
roles Pope Francis has suggested the
global Community should study whether
Israel's military campaign in Gaza
constitutes genocide it's some of the
Pope's most explicit criticism yet of
Israel's conduct in its year-long war
against Hamas Israel says accusations of
genocide are baseless
[Applause]
president-elect Donald Trump is filling
up more cabinet vacancies choosing
Brendan Carr a vocal critic of big Tech
to be chairman of the Federal
Communications Commission meanwhile oil
and gas executive Chris Wright a staunch
defender of fossil fuel use is Trump's
pick to lead the department of
[Music]
energy the president- elect receiving a
roaring welcome on his return to Madison
Square Garden this time for a UFC event
Trump and his Entourage spent hours
ringside watching five bels after
winning the big fight of the night chap
Jon Jones paid tribute to the president
in Waiting busting out a YMCA dance
similar to
[Music]
Trump's Steve Holland has been covering
the trip Steve we haven't seen much of
trump since the election
why did he choose this venue for a
public outing it's not something that
presidents normally do most presidents
either like NFL football basketball
baseball for Trump it's this bare
knuckled brawler type event with people
hitting each other in in a cage fight
format and he counts the fans of this
sport as a part of his political Bas of
support it's something that he feels
strongly about maintaining links to you
know many of the fans there were wearing
red make America great again hats he got
a a lot of cheering rockus cheers from
the crowd they were very glad to see him
back in his kind of natural environment
who accompanied him to New York Trump
had with him in his Entourage an
Eclectic group that included RFK Jr
who's going to be his HHS secretary Co
Tulsi gabard who's going to be the
intelligence chief vivec ramaswami who's
not in the cabinet but is a part of this
tra group and it it just shows that
Trump has not forgotten his friends he
sat right next to Elon Musk and Dana
White who's the president of the UFC one
thing I would add Trump flew back to Mar
Lago in the middle of the night with
Elon Musk with RFK Jr with his son
Donald Trump Jr and with Speaker of the
House Mike Johnson there's a photo
posted on social media by one of Trump's
AIDS showing them all eating McDonald's
fast food in the middle of the night
negotiators at the UN climate Summit in
aeran are struggling to reach a climate
financing deal countries agree that the
most vulnerable Nations need money to
deal with global warming but they
disagree on who should be made pay and
how much it comes as a group of climate
experts and former leaders including
former un Secretary General banki Moon
say the annual talks are no longer fit
for purpose Simon Jess is in Baku they
need to get a new Target the numbers
being bandied around do vary but I think
most parties would agree it needs to
begin with a t not a b and if we don't
start paying that soon that number will
will rise because the damage will be
greater and the need will be greater but
also how we get there you know who
contributes to that price tag and
historically it's been the rich
countries like the US uh like Western
Europe they've had primary
responsibility for doing that but this
time around over the intervening period
perod rather you've had countries such
as China and India get more wealthy and
the rich countries would argue that
China and India for example should now
pay in formally pay in and join them in
this club of rich countries that pay for
it they don't want to set that precedent
and so that's a real sticking point and
the other thing is which pots of money
this figure will come from what rich
countries have often done is give it in
the form of a loone governments in the
developing world don't want that they
would rather have a grant so that's
being Deb are there any new pockets of
money that could be unlocked these are
still questions at the moment but we all
know that some of the most polluting
Industries would be things like the oil
and gas sector or the aviation sector so
the argument would be the polluter in
this case certain sectors that get rich
from um polluting should pay or that we
as consumers should pay if we want to
use those services or buy those products
so how that would work in practice is
very much up in the air with Aviation it
could be if you want to fly business
class or first class you would just pay
a levy on top $10 $20 whatever it's a
pool of money that if everyone agreed
would raise you know a serious amount of
money hundreds of billions a year and
you add all of these taxes together and
you're starting to talk about a really a
really big pot of money that previously
wasn't
[Music]
there and before we go today's
recommended read is a message from Apple
supplier foxcon to Recruiters in India
they've ordered the hiring agents who
recruit iPhone assembly workers to
remove age gender and marital status as
well as a manufacturer's name from job
ads the move follows a reuter's
investigation which found that foxcon
was excluding married women from jobs at
its main India plant a link to that
story as well as our June investigation
is in the Pod description and for more
on any of the stories from today check
out reuters.com or the Reuters app to
never miss an episode follow on your
favorite podcast player we'll be back
tomorrow with our daily headline show
