today Donald Trump labels Vladimir
zalinski a dictator as their Feud
deepens a new Reuters ipsos poll shows
that Americans are worried about the
impact of Elon musk's cuts to the
federal government and Trump's Media
Company sues the Brazilian judge
presiding over the bolsonaro coup
case it's Thursday February 20th this is
Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Christopher wal Jesper in Chicago
and I'm Tara Oaks in
Liverpool Europe has failed to bring
peace and zalinski probably wants to
maybe he wants to keep the gravy train
going I don't know what's the problem
but a major flip in US policy president
Donald Trump doubling down on his
criticism of Ukraine's President
Vladimir zilinski accusing zalinski of
being a
dictator tensions between the two have
intensified this week after us talks
with Russia in Saudi Arabia as for
zalinski he accused Trump of living in a
disinformation space president
Trump trump saying in response that the
Ukrainian leader has done a terrible job
and could have attended the talks in
Saudi Arabia if he wanted
to Max hunda is in Kiev and has been
giving us a reaction from Ukraine well
ordinary ukrainians are quite shocked
and flabbergasted at what they've seen
from president Trump there's been some
anger on social media a lot of dismay
everyone's quite depressed about what
this means for the future zilinski did
sort of fire back a bit and then that
actually escalated this war of words but
I would point out that actually this
spat has really caused ukrainians in
jail enal to Rally around zalinski
there's actually a stronger measure of
domestic cohesion and unity than there
was before this spat started as people
rally around their leader at this
difficult time the latest poll that
actually was released on Wednesday said
he had 57% trust so how does this impact
the war the actual tangible processes
are still the same as they were before
the spat this is so far just a spat of
course I I'd remind you that Biden era
Aid packages still trickling in but also
it's wrong to see Ukraine as helpless
without foreign support Ukraine's grown
a pretty massive domestic arms industry
for a country of its size throughout the
war and it can meet some of its arms
demands by itself and obviously the
Europeans seem to have been somewhat jol
to the wake by Trump's actions and
statements over the past week and a half
however the US is still the largest
single military backer and IT Supplies a
lot of Key Systems and weapons which it
would be hard very hard sometimes
impossible to adequately replace and
unfortunately for Ukraine if it does
lose us political and Military Support
that would I think inevitably lead to
significantly higher Ukrainian
casualties on the battlefield one of the
causes of attention is what to do with
Ukraine's supply of critical minerals
with zalinsky rejecting a US proposal
for a minerals deal and saying Ukraine
is not for sale but what are critical
minerals and why is what Ukraine has so
valuable you can find out on this week's
episode of econ World podcast it's
available
[Music]
now Red Cross Vehicles surrounded by a
crowd and members of
Hamas carrying the bodies of Israeli
infant K bias and his four-year-old
brother Ariel from
Gaza they are the two youngest captives
taken by Hamas in the October 7th attack
their bodies and that of their mother
were handed over today along with the
fourth hostage a dead LIF it's the
first time Israel has received the
bodies of hostages as part of the
ceasefire
[Music]
agreement Pope Francis is alert and
responsive and making jokes that's what
Italian Prime Minister Georgia Maloney
said after visiting him in hospital the
Vatican says the 88-year-old has shown a
slight Improvement in recent blood tests
as he battles double
pneumonia NASA's plans to return to the
moon are less certain as four Key Senior
officials close to its Artemis Moon
program leave the space agency president
Trump as well as Elon Musk whose company
SpaceX has $15 billion doll worth of
contracts with NASA have been advocating
for shelving the Artemis program in
favor of amar's
mission the Democratic Republic of Congo
is asking for military and diplomatic
support from Chad it's an effort to help
fight a Rwanda backed Insurgency from
M23 rebels in its eastern
[Music]
provinces gold prices have hit another
record high as investors into bullion
for safety over fears that Trump's
tariff plans would Stoke inflation and a
global trade war for those keeping track
that's the ninth time the metal has
touched an all-time high this year that
comes after a 27% rise last year its
strongest annual performance in over a
decade and guess what there's an econ
World episode all about gold for you to
find out more about what's happening
take a listen wherever you get your
podcasts
[Music]
a new Reuters ipsos poll shows that a
majority of Americans are worried that
Elon musk's efforts to reduce the
federal government could hurt services
in their communities but the poll also
shows some support for reducing the size
of government even from Democrats our
political editor Scott Malone is here to
break down the numbers it's a big
picture what we see is that Americans do
support the idea that the federal
government could be smaller but but
they're showing a lot of concerns about
the way this particular campaign is
being run hm how so um 58% of
respondents said that they're concerned
that Federal programs that their
communities rely on like Social Security
like student aid could be slowed as a
result of this and that is about double
the number of people who said that they
aren't worried respondents are also
concerned about the influence that
billionaires and the wealthy have on the
White House with 71% saying that they
believe that wealthy have too much
influence on the White House and 69%
saying that they think that the wealthy
are in fact making money off their White
House connections how's the Trump
Administration viewing public approval
of these early actions well I mean the
Trump administration's take is that one
that there's a there's a need to cut
costs full stop broadly that general
idea the American public does agree with
59% of respondents to our survey said
that they did back the goal of
downsizing the federal government the
White House does say that they believe
that they have broad public support for
their cost cutting campaigns deciding
Trump's election Victory so I think
disconnect we're seeing is you know
perhaps some concern about how the way
that it's being executed right
now Trump Media Group and a video
sharing platform are suing a Brazilian
Supreme Court Justice accusing him of
illegal censorship the judge in question
is also the one weighing the criminal
case against Trump's Ally Brazil's
former president ja BS Aro bolaro has
been charged by the Brazilian Supreme
Court over an alleged 2022 coup plot BR
Haynes is our bureau chief in Brazil and
has been looking into both cases part of
the effort by Bolado and his allies in
Congress and internationally to
discredit this case before The Supreme
Court is to focus very specifically on
the judge who's been overseeing the
investigation and is now going to be
hearing the case before The Supreme
Court and this same judge alishan Jim
has been taking the most active role in
combating what is seen as misinformation
online and what is Accused by a lot of
conservatives in Brazil of being a
censorship campaign now we saw Trump
media and Rumble another conservative
social media platform bringing a lawsuit
in a federal district court in Pampa
specifically suing this Brazilian
Supreme Court Justice Alexandri Mor now
there's no explicit signs of
coordination but you just saw Moray
receive charges before The Supreme Court
and it was not 12 hours later we had a
lawsuit from Trump media and other
conservative allies of Bolado targeting
that same Supreme Court Justice in a US
lawsuit Brazil's Supreme Court and Mari
office did not immediately respond to
requests for comment last year Justice
morice was locked in a monthlong feud
with Elon Musk he was the one who led
the Supreme Court decision that
temporarily suspended musk owned X in
Brazil over the social media platform's
failure to comply with court
[Music]
rulings for our recommended read today
we focus on eggs and how turkey is
exporting 15,000 tons of them to the US
to ease disruption caused by the bird
flu outbreak you can find out more by
following the link in the Pod
description for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app don't forget to
follow us on your favorite podcast
player we'll be back tomorrow with our
daily headline show
