today a driver flying an Isis flag Rams
into a New Orleans crowd celebrating New
Year's Day a Tesla cyber truck explodes
outside the Trump International Hotel
Las
Vegas the Russian gas era in Europe ends
as Ukraine refuses to renew a Transit
agreement and what is the US de ceiling
anyway it's Thursday January 2nd this is
Roy's world news bringing you everything
you need to know from the front lines in
10 minutes every weekday I'm Tara Oaks
in
[Music]
Liverpool the streets of New Orleans
before midnight on New Year's
Eve just hours later a US Army vet
flying an Isis flag from his truck
plowed into the crowded French Quarter
killing 15 people the suspect has been
identified as shamsu djabar a
42-year-old US citizen from Texas who
once served in Afghanistan he was killed
in a shootout with
police he was
hellbent on creating the Carnage and the
Damage that he did police chief an
Kirkpatrick describing how the attacker
drove around security barricades in an
attack officials say may have been
carried out with the help of others
Kimberly Strickland was just 20 yard
from where the truck hit pedestrians
like you just heard this squeal and like
the r of an engine and then this huge
loud impact and then the people
screaming around 30 people were also
injured police have found weapons and a
potential explosive device inside the
vehicle US President Joe Biden called a
Despicable attack adding that all
resources are being made available for a
full investigation into the incident as
well as the explosion of a Tesla cyber
truck outside the Trump Hotel in Las
Vegas law enforcement and the
intelligence Community are investigating
this as well including whether there's
any possible connection with the attack
in New Orleans that explosion in Las
Vegas happened just hours after the New
Orleans attack the driver was killed and
seven others injured videos taken by
Witnesses inside and outside the hotel
show the vehicle exploding and them
Flames pouring out of it I just heard a
a
boom Oh my God in this video taken by
Jeffrey Miller black smoke can be seen
rising in front of the hotel Las Vegas
Metropolitan Police Department Sheriff
Kevin mcmahill described what they found
in the back of a truck so those are
gasoline canisters they are um camp fuel
canisters and large firework mortars the
FBI says it's investigating whether the
Vegas blast was an act of
[Music]
terrorism former Israeli defense
minister yav Galant has resigned from
Parliament Galant was fired from the
government in November by prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu after months of
disagreements over the conduct of the
war against Hamas in Gaza
energy is being restored in Puerto Rico
after a grid failure on New Year's Eve
left nearly all of the island without
power incoming Governor Jennifer
Gonzalez has said on social media that
she's forming an energy task force to
address the frequent
blackouts the Fiji government says
police are investigating incidents
involving two crew members of Virgin
Australia airline who are allegedly
victims of rape and theft in the early
hours of New Year's Day the crew members
were in the popular tourist destination
of Nardi on a layover before they were
supposed to fly off the following day a
gunman who killed at least 10 people in
a rampage in a small town in Montenegro
has died from self-inflicted
injuries the gunman identified by police
as Alexander martinovich died after
attempting suicide near his home in the
town of satin
[Music]
[Applause]
Donald Trump's impending return to the
White House and his plans for Hefty
import tariffs tax cuts and immigration
restrictions is setting the tone for the
new year on
markets Chinese stocks in particular
fell heavily as did the Yuan which
weakened to its lowest level against US
dollar in almost 14 months Trump's talk
of tariffs in excess of 60% on Imports
of Chinese Goods has coincided with
central government pledges of proactive
policies to promote growth this year
muddying the outlook for an economy that
has struggled for
momentum it's the end of an era no more
Russian gas to Europe after the expiry
of a 5-year Transit agreement between
Russia and Ukraine and a reversal of
Fortune for Russia's energy giant
gazprom Dimitri jikov is our energy and
commodities editor so Dima what does
this mean for gazprom I mean it's enough
to look at their financial performance
in
2023 to see the real impact they've
posted a loss of $7
billion uh they haven't had a loss since
1999 just to remind people 1999 Putin
was not even in power back then so for
gas prom it's a massive problem because
they used to supply dozen of countries
in in Europe and they had great plans to
expand worldwide Supply liquefied gas to
from America to Asia and all these plans
are now essentially in Ruins they they
have also these pipelines the pipelines
that connect Russia with uh with Europe
the tens of billions worth of
infrastructure this is just which is
just buried in the ground conversely
it's ended up as a big win for the US
right it did I mean not intentionally
but the US is the biggest winner in all
this because they've replaced most of
gas prom's gas in Europe with supplies
of liquified gas because the US gas
industry is booming it's very ironic gas
prom dismissed for many years the might
of us gas industry saying they won't be
able to compete Well turns out they are
the ones who displaced all the Russian
gas in Europe and the US role will only
be rising in December Trump said that he
will be pressing the EU to buy more us
energy or face tariffs gazprom has
recognized that the loss of major EU
clients has adversely impacted its
business but says it plans to grow
exports to Asia to compensate for the
[Music]
loss Donald Trump wanted to start his
second presidency without having to
worry about the debt ceiling things
didn't go his way and so here we are
once again with the United States
pushing up against its legal borrowing
limit and everyone having to fret about
a potential default by the world's
biggest deta outgoing treasury secretary
Janet Yellen says government officials
may have to take Extraordinary Measures
by as early as January 14th to prevent
that happening but what exactly is the
debt limit David lorder covers the
treasury and breaks it down for us the
debt ceiling was created by Congress in
197 17 when the United States entered
World War I so up until that
time any borrowing that was done by the
treasury Department required a specific
act of Congress they had to go back and
ask for permission every time they
wanted to sell bonds and this was not a
very efficient way to borrow the vast
sums of money that were needed for the
for the war effort so Congress uh
authorized the treasury to go to the
debt markets at the optimum times to
raise money you know as it saw fit uh
but in exchange for this it set an
overall cap on the amount that could be
borrowed so to go above that level the
president would have to go back to
Congress for permission and so that
became the debt limit that we know today
how is it used so in terms of doing what
it says on the box uh which is to limit
the debt it has failed miserably for the
most part debt ceiling expirations have
been used as leverag by Congress uh to
extract spending concessions and it's
usually been the Republicans that have
used it as a bargaining chip so in
recent years it's it's been a message of
uh cut spending or else we will force a
default on the payment obligations of
the US government it's an artificial
construct a lot of policy experts view
as needless
friction for the global financial
markets and financial stability but it
it never seems to go away and if you
want to dive more into debt check out an
early episode of reuter's econ World
podcast our very own carel crimmin talks
to Nobel Prize winner Paul Krugman about
why he isn't worried about a US debt
crisis there's a link to the show in the
description of today's
[Music]
pod a recommended read today is also a
recommended watch as nun and Paul show
off their martial arts skills at the
reopening of a nunery the site belonging
to the thousand-year-old drop C lineage
has been closed since the pandemic there
a link to the article and the video in
today's pod description for more on any
of the stories from today check out
reuters.com or the Reuters app don't
forget to follow us on your favorite
podcast player and we'll be back
tomorrow with our daily headline show
