today the latest after a deadly plane
crash in Washington DC why the feds in a
holding pattern on rate Cuts Democrats
Grill RFK Jr over vaccines and why NATO
is scrambling for drones that can
survive the
Arctic it's Thursday January 30th this
is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Jonah Green in New York and I'm Tara
Oaks in
Liverpool scores of people are feared
dead after an American Airlines Regional
passenger jet and a US Army Blackhawk
helicopter collided crushing into the
pomac river near Reagan Washington
National Airport you see that air
traffic control recording the moments
just after the incident 38-year-old
aardi is with witness the crash I was
getting ready to go to bed laying down
when I he I hear a bang bang a very
unusual sounds I looked up the the sky I
looked up the window and I all I could
see at that moment was just smokes from
the south side of Reagan Airport part of
the river is totally frozen we're
talking about maneuvering through ice to
get to the crash seat officials have not
yet provided a death toll from the
Collision but US senator Senor Roger
Marshall of Kansas where the flight
originated has suggested that all on
board died it's really hard when you
lose you know probably over 60 Canon
simultaneously and Russian State media
is reporting that ice skating coaches
and former world champions yenia
shishova and badim naov were on board
the American Airlines plane possibly
with their son Maxim who had been
competing at the US figure skating
championships in witchar Kansas us
figure skating says that several members
of its skating Community were on the
plane defense secretary Pete Heth has
said an investigation has been launched
by the Army and defense department we
have a live page running on reuters.com
and the Reuters app to follow the latest
as news
[Music]
develops we have 30,000 beds in
Guantanamo president Donald Trump is
instructing the Departments of defense
and Homeland Security to prepare a
Detention Center at Guantanamo Bay to
hold roughly 30,000 migrants meanwhile
his administration appears to have
abandoned its proposed freeze on
hundreds of billions of dollars in
domestic Aid facing legal setbacks and
widespread opposition the White House
budget office told federal agencies it
was resending a memo that had ordered
the pause in Grant and loan
payments an Iraqi Refugee who is in an
anti-islam campaigner has been shot dead
in Sweden hours before he was due to
receive a Court verdict following a
trial over his burning of the Quran
Swedish media reports that Salan Mika
was streaming live on Tik Tok at the
time he was
shot celebrations in Tel Aviv as
Palestinian militants begin the hand
over of three Israeli hostages in
Gaza the latest stage of the ceasefire
deal will also see 110 Palestinians
freed an Israel's ban on unra comes into
effect today tens of thousands of
Palestinian refugees in Israeli occupied
East Jerusalem will lose access to
Education Health Care and other services
provided by the UN
agency we see things as in a really good
place for policy and for the economy and
so we feel like we don't need to be in a
hurry to to make any adjustments Federal
Reserve chairman Jerome Powell
explaining the decision by the central
bank to keep interest rates unchanged
Howard Schneider covers the fed and
breaks down what's behind the decision
to slow down I think what came through
to me is they they really as much Faith
as they have in further cooling of
inflation they're now back in a
situation of wanting to see that happen
before before they move again and make
sure it's going to happen and of course
the backdrop to that is a load of stuff
from deportations to tariffs to uh
possible stimulus coming in the form of
tax cuts from the Trump Administration
how that seeps through the economy into
stoking demand or higher prices or
whatever is going to happen they need to
see that before they make any more
commitments on R cuts and in this
weekend's episode of econ World KL cmans
looks at the risk of Bond vigilantes
return learning if Trump's policies
misfire it's available now wherever you
get your
[Music]
podcasts I find your presentation to be
both untrustworthy and unprepared Senate
Democrats grilled Robert F Kennedy Jr
Trump's pick to lead the Department of
Health and Human Services Kennedy can
kill off access to vaccines and make
millions of dollars while he does it
lawmakers accusing him of covering up
his antivaccine views and embracing
conspiracy theories to dissuade use of
life-saving medicines reporter Stephanie
CI has been covering Kennedy I would say
it was a very contentious hearing it was
very Lively and that was not only from
the Senator's lines of questioning to
Kennedy but even in the room there were
several
occasions we'll have where protesters
had to be escorted from the room there
were also plenty of
people who were supportive of Kennedy
wearing make America healthy again hats
and it seemed like the central theme of
Kennedy's argument was that things that
had been said about him such as that he
is against vaccines are inaccurate and
that past statements he's made have been
taken out of context or our
misrepresentations I I want good science
and I want to but you will not tell
overall he got a lot of support from
Republican Senators at the same time
there are some Republicans that have
questioned his previous comments in
support of abortion rights and Kennedy
said that he will be in line with
whatever Trump is supportive of and
Kennedy is in agreement with Trump that
states should have say over abortion
access Russia has stepped up military
activity in the Arctic president Donald
Trump has revived us claims to Greenland
and NATO states in the region are
reporting more acts of sabotage on
energy and Communications lines all
reasons that governments in the far
north have put developing drones which
can COPE in the arctic's tough
conditions top of the agenda Jacob kold
peden in Copenhagen has that Russia was
a first mover in the mil military
buildup in the Arctic so NATO has been
sort of on the back foot and Arctic NATO
states have started to invest more and
more in unmanned systems including
drones drones have been used for
military purposes for years in in the
Middle East uh primarily so most of them
were designed for sort of warmer
temperatures milder climates now with
the war in Ukraine has shown even
greater importance of unmanned systems
and in particular drones on the
battlefield and for surveillance
militaries have found out that unmanned
systems can play a really important role
in the Arctic because it's very
difficult conditions to have lots of
troops in those regions so how are
drones particularly vulnerable there
essentially when temperatures drop what
that does is cause a a thin layer of ice
to form on the propellers or on the
wings of the Drone and that can
essentially cause the the Drone to
malfunction and crash battery strain
very quickly when it's cold so what kind
of solutions are companies looking at to
mitigate these issues some of them are
are looking at anti-icing systems you
have companies working on on heated
propellers and heated Wings you have
other companies working with fast
spinning propellers that spin so fast
that they turn ice droplets that land on
them that turn them directly into into a
gas form and a third option is that's
also being followed by for example the
United States is just to buy cheaper
models and buy a lot of them they're so
cheap that you don't care if you if you
lose some and what about Trump's latest
comments on Greenland for example have
they pushed the Arctic drone agenda
absolutely Denmark which controls
Greenland this week announced that they
would buy additionally two long range
drones to help monitor the vast areas of
the Arctic seas and and Greenland
doubling the number of of drones they
had that had initially planned to
[Music]
buy and for today's recommended read why
blocking China's deep seek from using us
aai may be difficult top White House
advisers have expressed alarm that deep
seek may have benefited from a method
that allegedly piggybacks off the
advances of American Rivals called dist
ation essentially one AI system learning
from another you can read more about it
by following the link in today's pod
description and for more on any of the
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app don't forget to
follow us on your favorite podcast
player we'll be back tomorrow with our
daily headline show
