today China on edge after a Spate of
violent attacks across the country US
federal workers brace for Trump's
promised Cuts while looking to Congress
for protection and Hong Kong's High
Court jails dozens of pro-democracy
activists it's Tuesday November 19th
this is Reuters world news bringing you
everything you need to know from the
front lines in 10 minutes every weekday
I'm Christopher walljasper in Chicago
and I'm David Spencer in
London first to Southern China where
several people have been injured after
an SUV plowed into students and
pedestrians outside a primary school
this happened just days after a driver
killed 35 people when he rammed a
vehicle into a crowd at a sports center
also in southern China
today's incident comes after an attack
on Sunday to when a former student went
on a stabbing Rampage at a vocational
College in Eastern China killing eight
people all of this has added to
escalating fears over a Spate of violent
attacks in China this year Casey Hall is
in Shanghai I think the reaction to
these this SP of incidents what we've
seen from online commentary is that
people are angry people are increasingly
nervous and Afraid the randomness of it
makes people feel genuinely frightened
and and uneasy what do we know then
about these separate incidents the
information that's released by the
police in each of these incidents has
been very very limited in some cases the
number for example of casualties comes
much later after the actual incident but
what we do see is although it is quickly
censored people post videos online
people are commenting on online people
are starting conversations online is
there any connection between these
incidents or attacks no no I mean this
is happening in many different cities
across the country there is some ties
among the suspects in these cases in
terms of they seem to be people who feel
AG grieved by some kind of financial
loss so there is a little bit of a tie
in in motivation and there is a little
bit of a tie in that it seems that in
many of these cases what they're really
striking out at is innocent bystanders
not people who have necessarily been
directly involved in the situation that
has made them feel grieved and so the
terminology that we see online in China
for this is social Revenge attacks these
are Revenge attacks against society as a
whole former Wisconsin Congressman Fox
News host and reality star Sean Duffy is
tapped to become Donald Trump's
Secretary of
Transportation Duffy would manage a 110
billion budget as well as a significant
amount of funding left from President
Biden's $1 trillion infrastructure law
including the expansion of EV charging
stations the house Ethics Committee is
expected to discuss next steps on
Wednesday in its investigation into
attorney general pick Matt Gates sources
tell Reuters a growing number of Trump's
fellow Republicans in the Senate which
handles highlevel Presidential
appointments have called on the house
panel to turn over its findings on
allegations of sexual misconduct
involving a teenager and drug use by
Gates Lebanon and Hezbollah have agreed
to a US proposal for a ceasefire with
Israel according to a top Lebanese
official who described the effort as the
most serious yet to end the fighting
there's been no immediate comment from
[Music]
Israel tens of thousands of people at a
rally at New Zealand's parliament in
Wellington against a bill to alter
indigenous
rights it's one of the country's largest
ever protest to oppose a bill which
opponents say threatens to dilute the
rights of Mai
[Applause]
investors are still waiting to hear who
Trump is going to Picker treasury
secretary Carl kmn has more so after a
flurry of announcements for other
positions the search for treasury
secretary is actually widening Trump had
been expected to pick either Howard
lutnick who's the CEO of Wall Street
firm caner Fitzgerald or investor Scott
bessent but he's looking at other
candidates too Mark Rowan the CEO of
Apollo and former fed Governor Kevin
warsh are now being considered as well
and while we wait to hear who gets the
top job why not check out the latest
episode of my podcast Reuters econ world
it's all about climate change economic
growth and happiness you can listen on
the Reuters app or wherever you get your
[Music]
podcasts Donald Trump and Elon Musk have
promised to slash government employees
and cut costs now America's 2 million
strong civilian Federal Workforce is
looking to an unlikely source to protect
it the incoming Republican controlled
Congress while federal employee unions
are lining up lawyers and preparing
public campaigns to try and avert any
Mass firings they're also hoping
Republican Congress members will join
Democrats in defending their importance
to local economies health and safety
political reporter Andy Sullivan is in
Washington so not surprisingly federal
employees are pretty worried worried
about Trump coming back to office and
vowing to slash protections that make
sure they can't just get fired
arbitrarily these protections were put
in place over the past Century to build
up a professional bureaucratic class and
most people who work for the government
aren't politicized they're there to do
their jobs Trump has tapped Elon Musk
and Vivic ramaswami to come up with a
dramatic cost cutting plan vivc said he
would fire one in every two federal
workers rather arbit rarily first of all
even if he did that it wouldn't save you
that much money the federal government
spent about $6 trillion last year that's
with the T Federal salaries come to
about $271 billion so that's about 4%
you fire half of those people you get 2%
in savings and then you don't have
anybody to do things like cut Social
Security checks or treat people in
hospitals so do musk and ramas Swami
even have the author
to do what they're promising yeah that's
a great question we don't know at this
point what sort of authority Elon and
Vivic are going to be given and there's
a long tradition in Washington of doing
this whenever there's a difficult
problem they say let's set up a
committee to study the problem they come
up with a report the report is promptly
shelved people can come up with any sort
of recommendations they want but at the
end of the day they're going to have to
get it through Congress Republicans
control both the house and the Senate
but many of these folks represent areas
where the federal government has a
pretty large footprint in employs a lot
of people think of anywhere there's a
military base these tend to be in
conservative Southern areas they employ
a ton of people if you slash the
government that's all the people back
home who are losing
[Music]
jobs anguish in Hong Kong as a mother
reacts to her son's sentencing and is
taken away by police he's one of 45
pro-democracy activists sentenced to ja
for up to 10 years by the city's High
Court they were arrested and charged in
2021 with conspiracy to commit
subversion after a Beijing imposed law
the Chinese and Hong Kong government say
the laws were necessary to restore order
after Mass protests in 2019 and the
Democrats have been treated in
accordance with local laws James pomfrit
is in Hong Kong this is in many ways the
most closely watched national security
case that has taken place over the past
four years or so since the National
Security laws were promulgated by China
we had Australia's foreign minister
Penny Wong criticizing the verdict today
and saying that essentially China
shouldn't clamp down on freedoms in Hong
Kong and the US government as well they
they've been critical of this case and
have called for the Democrats to be
immediately released so in terms of
reputation it does deal quite a heavy
blow to Hong Kong's aspirations to be a
Global Financial Hub which in many ways
is underpinned by the freedoms that are
supposedly allowed here under local laws
so there has been this feeling amongst
some Western governments there has been
a deterioration of these freedoms over
the past few years and this ruling is
quite significant in that regard in in
again reminding people that this China
ruled city is becoming in some ways less
[Music]
free before we go today our recommended
read which is looking at a thousand days
of the Ukraine war thousands of people
have died over 6 million live as
refugees abroad and the population has
fallen by a quarter since February
2022 there's a link to our story in the
Pod description and for more on any
stories from today check out reuters.com
or the Reuters app to never miss an
episode follow along on your favorite
podcast player we'll be back tomorrow
with our daily headline show
